292 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsOperating System Tools to Implement Security Functions
In this section we consider how an operating system actually implements the security 
functions for general objects of unspecified types, such as files, devices, or lists, memory 

objects, databases, or sharable tables. To make the explanations easier to understand, we 

sometimes use an example of a specific object, such as a file. Note, however, that a general 

mechanism can be used to protect any type of object for which access must be limited.
Remember the basic access control paradigm articulated by Scott Graham and Peter Denning [GRA72] and explained in Chapter 2: A subject is permitted to access an 

object in a particular mode, and only such authorized accesses are allowed. In Chap-

ter 2 we presented several access control techniques: the access control list (ACL), the 

privilege list, and capabilities. Operating systems implement both the underlying tables 

supporting access control and the mechanisms that check for acceptable uses.Another important operating system function 
related to the access control function is 
audit: a log of which subject accessed which object when and in what manner. Auditing 

is a tool for reacting after a security breach, not for preventing one. If critical informa-

tion is leaked, an audit log may help to determine exactly what information has been 

compromised and perhaps by whom 
and when. Such knowledge can help 

limit the damage of the breach and 

also help prevent future incidents 

by illuminating what went wrong 

this time.An operating system cannot log every action because of the volume of such data. 
The act of writing to the audit record is also an action, which would generate another 
FIGURE 5-5 Operating System Loaded in StagesearlyBootstrap LoaderPrimitive KernelPrimitive FunctionsAdvanced FunctionsAdd-OnslateBIOSAudit logs show what happened in an incident; analysis of logs can guide 
prevention of future successful strikes.
