680 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentschoose to take their business to a competitor. For some time-critical services involving 
human lives, such as a hospital’s life-support systems or a space station’s guidance sys-

tems, the costs of failure are infinitely high.
Thus, we must analyze the ramifications of a computer security failure. The follow-
ing questions can prompt us to think about issues of explicit and hidden cost related to 

security. The answers may not produce precise cost figures, but they will help identify 

the sources of various types of costs.
• What are the legal obligations for preserving the confidentiality or integrity of 
a given data item? 
• What business requirements and agreements cover the situation? Does the orga-
nization have to pay a penalty if it cannot provide a service?
• Could release of a data item cause harm to a person or organization? Would 
there be the possibility of legal action if harm were done? 
• Could unauthorized access to a data item cause the loss of future business 
opportunity? Might it give a competitor an unfair advantage? What would be the 

estimated loss in revenue? 
• What is the psychological effect of lack of computer service? Embarrassment? 
Loss of credibility? Loss of business? How many customers would be affected? 

What is their value as customers? 
• What is the value of access to data or programs? Could this computation be 
deferred? Could this computation be performed elsewhere? How much would it 

cost to have a third party do the computing elsewhere? 
• What is the value to someone else of having access to data or programs? How 
much would a competitor be willing to pay for access? 
• What other problems would arise from loss of data? Could the data be replaced 
or reconstructed? With what amount of work? 
These are not easy costs to evaluate. Nevertheless, they are needed to develop a thor-
ough understanding of the risks. Furthermore, the vulnerabilities in computer security 
are often considerably higher than managers expect. Realistic estimates of potential harm 

can raise concern and suggest places in which attention to security is especially needed.Step 5: Survey and Select New Controls
By this point in our risk analysis, we understand the system’s vulnerabilities and the 
likelihood of exploitation. We turn next to an analysis of the controls to see which ones 

address the risks we have identified. We want to match each vulnerability with at least 

one appropriate security technique. Once we do that, we can use our expected loss esti-

mates to help us decide which controls, alone or in concert, are the most cost effective 

for a given situation. 
Choosing ControlsIn this analysis controls can overlap, as for example, when a human guard and a locked 

door both protect against unauthorized access. Neither of these is redundant, because 