196 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programmingand computing communities, natural defenses tend to be lower, so if an infection does 
occur, it often spreads unchecked. Human computer users can be naïve, uninformed, 

and lax, so the human route to computer infection is likely to remain important.
Malware Toolkits
A bank robber has to learn and practice the trade all alone. There is no 
Bank Robbing for Dummies book (at least none of which we are aware), and a would-be criminal can-
not send off a check and receive a box containing all the necessary tools. There seems 

to be a form of apprenticeship as new criminals work with more experienced ones, but 

this is a difficult, risky, and time-consuming process, or at least it seems that way to us 

outsiders.Computer attacking is somewhat different. First, there is a thriving underground of 
web sites for hackers to exchange techniques and knowledge. (As with any web site, the 

reader has to assess the quality of the content.) Second, attackers can often experiment in 

their own laboratories (homes) before launching public strikes. Most importantly, mal-

ware toolkits are readily available for sale. A would-be assailant can acquire, install, and 

activate one of these as easily as loading and running any other software; using one is 

easier than many computer games. Such a toolkit takes as input a target address and, when 

the user presses the [Start] button, it launches a probe for a range of vulnerabilities. Such 

toolkit users, who do not need to understand the vulnerabilities they seek to exploit, are 

known as script kiddies. As we noted 

earlier in this chapter, these toolkits 

often exploit old vulnerabilities for 

which defenses have long been pub-

licized. Still, these toolkits are effec-

tive against many victims.
Ease of use means that attackers do not have to understand, much less create, their 
own attacks. For this reason, it would seem as if offense is easier than defense in com-

puter security, which is certainly true. Remember that the defender must protect against 

all possible threats, but the assailant only has to find one uncovered vulnerability.
3.3 COUNTERMEASURES
So far we have described the techniques by which malware writers can transmit, con-

ceal, and activate their evil products. If you have concluded that these hackers are clever, 

crafty, diligent, and devious, you are right. And they never seem to stop working. Anti-

virus software maker McAfee reports identifying 200 distinct, new pieces of malware 

per minute. At the start of 2012 their malware library contained slightly fewer than 100 
million items and by the end of 2013 it had over 196 million [MCA14].
Faced with such a siege, users are hard pressed to protect themselves, and the secu-
rity defense community in general is strained. However, all is not lost. The available 

countermeasures are not perfect, some are reactive—after the attack succeeds—rather 

than preventive, and all parties from developers to users must do their part. In this sec-

tion we survey the countermeasures available to keep code clean and computing safe. 
Malware toolkits let novice attackers 

probe for many vulnerabilities at the 

press of a button.
