80 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Access Control List
An alternative representation is the 
access control list
; as shown in Figure 2-12, this 
representation corresponds to columns of the access control matrix. There is one such 

list for each object, and the list shows all subjects who should have access to the object 

and what their access is. This approach differs from the directory list because there is 

one access control list per object; a directory is created for each subject. Although this 

difference seems small, there are some significant advantages to this approach.
The access control list representation can include default rights. Consider subjects A 
and S, both of whom have access to object F. The operating system will maintain just 

one access list for F, showing the access rights for A and S, as shown in Figure 2-13. 

The access control list can include general default entries for any users. In this way, 

specific users can have explicit rights, and all other users can have a default set of rights. 

With this organization, all possible users of the system can share a public file or pro-

gram without the need for an entry for the object in the individual directory of each user.
The Multics operating system used a form of access control list in which each user belonged to three protection classes: a user, a group, and a compartment. The user desig-

nation identified a specific subject, and the group designation brought together subjects 

who had a common interest, such as their being coworkers on a project. The compart-

ment confined an untrusted object; a program executing in one compartment could not 

access objects in another compartment without specific permission. The compartment 

was also a way to collect objects that were related, such as all files for a single project.
To see how this type of protection might work, suppose every user who initiates 
access to the system identifies a group and a compartment with which to work. If 

Adams logs in as user Adams in group Decl and compartment Art2, only objects having 

Adams-Decl-Art2 in the access control list are accessible in the session.By itself, this kind of mechanism would be too restrictive to be usable. Adams can-
not create general files to be used in any session. Worse yet, shared objects would not 

only have to list Adams as a legitimate subject but also have to list Adams under all 

acceptable groups and all acceptable compartments for each group.The solution is the use of wild cards, meaning placeholders that designate “any user” 
(or “any group” or “any compartment”). An access control list might specify access 

by Adams-Decl-Art1, giving specific rights to Adams if working in group Decl on 
User WFile AAdminReadWriteOwnWriteWriteControlControlPrinterSystemClockReadFIGURE 2-12 Access Control List