432 Chapter 6  
NetworksThis attack is also the final piece in our analysis of security threats and vulnerabili-
ties to computer networks. This part has touched all three elements of the C-I-A triad, 

with eavesdropping and masquerading (attacks on confidentiality), data corruption and 

replay (integrity), and denial of service (availability). The section on WiFi networking 

showed vulnerabilities that can lead to failures of each of the three. That section also 

demonstrated that even carefully-developed standards can exhibit serious security flaws.
You may have concluded at this point that the number, breadth, and severity of net-
work security threats and vulnerabilities make a hopeless situation: Coping with all the 

problems is impossible. Keep in mind that Part I of this chapter raises threats, whereas 

the upcoming Part II shows the defender’s arsenal of countermeasures. Do not dispair; 

reinforcements are available.
However, your concern is well placed. As in many other aspects of security, offense 
and defense play a cat-and-mouse game: The offensive side creates a new attack (which 

might be a variation on an old attack), to which the defense responds. Defense often 

plays a catch-up game, meaning that many defensive actions are in response to an offen-

sive move. Fortunately, researchers and developers continue to seek new ways to thwart 

attackers.
We now investigate safeguards for computer networks.
PART II—STRATEGIC DEFENSES: SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES
In the rest of this chapter we consider three categories of controls: First, as you can 

well imagine, the familiar control of encryption is a strong tool for preserving both 

confidentiality and integrity in networks. We describe architecturally how encryption 

can be used and then introduce two specific applications of cryptography to networking: 

encrypted communication between a browser and its websites, called SSL encryption, 

and encrypted links within a network, called a virtual private network or VPN. Then we 

introduce a network-protection tool called a firewall, which is really just an instantia-

tion of the familiar reference monitor. We end the study of controls with another device, 

called an intrusion detection or protection system, that monitors network traffic to iden-

tify and counter specific malicious network threats.
6.6 CRYPTOGRAPHY IN NETWORK SECURITY
Recall from Chapter 2 that there are two broad classes of encryption: symmetric (secret 

key) and asymmetric (public key) systems. The first of those is the cryptographic work-

horse, used for bulk encryption of large quantities of data. That description perfectly 

fits network traffic, and that is exactly how it is used. The second class of cryptographic 

algorithms excels at establishing a trustworthy relationship between two parties who 

may not previously have had one, which also applies naturally in a networking situa-

tion. In this section we describe how those two approaches can provide security strength 

in a network.
