 Section 6.8  Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems 
481  network or some set of specific sensitive resources, such as a collection of servers hold-
ing critical data. The detection software can also monitor the content of packets com-

municated across the network, to detect, for example, unusual actions by one host (that 

might have been compromised) against another. A network IDS is better able to protect 

itself against detection or compromise than a host-based one because the network IDS 

can operate in so-called stealth mode, observing but never sending data onto the net-

work. Its network interface card can even be restricted to receive data only, never doing 

anything to reveal its connection to the network.
Another advantage of an NIDS 
is that it can send alarms on a sepa-
rate network from the one being 

monitored. That way an attacker 

will not know the attack has been 

recognized.Protocol-Level Inspection Technology
We have described attacks that require different kinds of inspection, for example:
• Ping and echo commands require the IDS to inspect the individual packets to 
determine packet type.
• Malformed packets require the IDS to detect an error in the general structure of 
the packet.
• Fragmentation requires the IDS to recognize over time that the separate pieces 
of the data unit cannot be reassembled correctly.
• Buffer overflow attacks require the IDS to monitor applications.
An IDS is said to operate at a particular network level or layer. For example, an 
IDS that detects malformed packets will not likely also be able to monitor application 

data, because that would require the IDS to do all the work of reassembling packets to 

extract the application-level data. Thus, different IDSs, or different components of an 

IDS package, monitor a network at different levels.
Other Intrusion Detection Technology
Intrusion detection systems were first investigated as research projects (see, for example, 

[DEN86] and [ALL99]) and began to appear as commercial products in the mid-1990s. 

Since that time, research and development have continued steadily, as has marketing. 

Now, intrusion detection capabilities are sometimes embedded in other devices (such 

as routers and firewalls), and marketing efforts have blurred what were clearly dis-

tinct capabilities. Thus, companies now claim that many tools or products are intrusion 

detection devices, and new terms have been introduced with which vendors seek to gain 

a competitive edge by highlighting fine distinctions.
In the next sections we present some of the other tools and concepts involved in 
intrusion detection.A HIDS monitors host traffic; a NIDS 

analyzes activity across a whole 

network to detect attacks on any 
network host.