 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
405  subnetwork. The attack is depicted in Figure 6-19, showing the single broadcast attack 
being reflected back on the victim. In this way the attacker uses the entire subnetwork 

to multiply the attack’s effect.
Echo–ChargenThe echo–chargen
 attack works between two hosts. Chargen is an ICMP protocol that 
generates a stream of packets to test the network’s capacity. Echo is another ICMP 

protocol used for testing; a host receiving an echo returns everything it receives to the 

sender.
The attacker picks two victims, A and B, and then sets up a chargen process on host 
A that generates its packets as echo packets with a destination of host B. Thus, A floods 

B with echo packets. But because these packets request the recipient to echo them back 

to the sender, host B replies by returning them to host A. As shown in Figure 6-20, this 

series puts the network infrastructures of A and B into an endless loop, as A generates a 

string of echoes that B dutifully returns to A, just as in a game of tennis. Alternatively, 

the attacker can make B both the source and destination address of the first packet, so B 

hangs in a loop, constantly creating and replying to its own messages.
SYN FloodAnother popular denial-of-service attack is the SYN flood. This attack uses the TCP 
protocol suite, making the session-oriented nature of these protocols work against the 

victim.For a protocol such as Telnet or SMTP, the protocol peers establish a virtual connec-
tion, called a session, to synchronize the back-and-forth, command–response nature of 
the interaction. A session is established with a three-way TCP handshake. Each TCP 

packet has flag bits, one of which is denoted SYN (synchronize) and one denoted ACK 

(acknowledge). First, to initiate a TCP connection, the originator sends a packet with 

the SYN bit on. Second, if the recipient is ready to establish a connection, it replies 

with a packet with both the SYN and ACK bits on. Finally, the first party completes the 
FIGURE 6-19 Smurf AttackVictimAttackerAll network hostsreply to victimVictim is saturatedwith ECHO repliesfrom entire networkAttacker sendsbroadcast ECHOrequest to network,with victim’s return address 