464 Chapter 6  
NetworksEach of these scenarios can be implemented as a modified proxy. Because the proxy 
decision is based on some quality of the communication data, we call the proxy a guard. 
Since the security policy implemented by the guard is somewhat more complex than the 

action of a proxy, the guard’s code is also more complex and therefore more exposed to 

error. Simpler firewalls have fewer possible ways to fail or be subverted. An example 

of a guard process is the so-called Great Firewall of China, described in Sidebar 6-23.
We have purposely arranged these firewall types from simple to complex. Simple 
screening is highly mechanistic and algorithmic, implying that code to implement it is 
regular and straightforward. Complex content determinations edge closer to machine 

intelligence, a more heuristic and variable activity. More complex analysis takes more 

time, which may affect a firewall’s performance and usefulness. No single firewall 

approach is necessarily right or better; each has its appropriate context of use.
SIDEBAR 6-23 Great Firewall of China
Rulers in the People’s Republic of China want to control data to which their 
residents have access. Content companies like Google and Yahoo/Micro-

soft have been told that if they want to do business in China they need to 
employ special versions of their web applications that filter out “offensive 

words.” When Skype wanted to enter the Chinese market, they were simi-

larly told they had to scrub text messages; the result: Skype text now elimi-

nates words such as “Falun Gong” and “Dalai Lama.”
Bloomberg Business News reports that China employs 30,000 
people to monitor content on websites and report on ones that violate 

standards [ELG06]. All Internet traffic passes through a bank of government- 

controlled firewalls. Any email or text messages that contain banned words 

are dropped at the firewall.
As a condition of doing business in China, Google was asked to 
provide a special search capability that would not allow access to certain 

banned sites or render unacceptable content. Tiananmen is one sensi-

tive term, as is June 4 (the date of the uprising); enter those into a search 

engine and, according to CNN, you obtain the result “According to relevant 

law and regulations, the results are not displayed.” But enter 8x8, which of 

course evaluates to 64 or 6/4, the abbreviation for June 4, and you may find 

some blog entries that have not yet been censored [SHA11]. Facebook and 

Twitter are, of course, censored, but people find crafty ways to evade that 

censorship.After complying with Chinese restrictions for several years, Google 
officially left mainland China in Summer 2010. Initially, Google’s traffic was 

redirected to servers in Hong Kong, technically Chinese but operating with 

great freedom. Chinese firewalls and addressing servers redirect attempts 

to reach external sites.
Although not technically a firewall, the Great Firewall of China, for-
mally known by the more appealing name Golden Shield Project, certainly 

performs firewall functions. However, as the cited examples show, filtering 

content is more difficult than simply screening addresses.
