64 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Authentication is essential for a computing system because accurate user identifi-
cation is the key to individual access rights. Most operating systems and computing 

system administrators have applied reasonable but stringent security measures to lock 

out unauthorized users before they can access system resources. But, as reported in 

Sidebar 2-12, sometimes an inappropriate mechanism is forced into use as an authenti-

cation device.
Losing or forgetting a biometric authentication is virtually impossible because bio-
metrics rely on human characteristics. But the characteristics can change over time 

(think of hair color or weight); therefore, biometric authentication may be less precise 
than knowledge-based authentication. You either know a password or you don’t. But a 

fingerprint can be a 99 percent match or 95 percent or 82 percent, part of the variation 

depending on factors such as how you position your finger as the print is read, whether 

your finger is injured, and if your hand is cold or your skin is dry or dirty. Stress can also 

affect biometric factors, such as voice recognition, potentially working against security. 

Imagine a critical situation in which you need to access your computer urgently but 

your being agitated affects your voice. If the system fails your authentication and offers 

you the chance to try again, the added pressure may make your voice even worse, which 

threatens availability.
Biometrics can be reasonably quick and easy, and we can sometimes adjust the sen-
sitivity and specificity to balance false positive and false negative results. But because 

biometrics require a device to read, their use for remote authentication is limited. The 
SIDEBAR 2-11 Continuedof 744 prints to determine whether the prints matched. This experiment was 
designed to measure the accuracy (degree to which two examiners would 

reach the same conclusion) and reliability (degree to which one examiner 

would reach the same conclusion twice). A total of 4,083 fingerprint pairs 

were examined.
Of the pairs examined, six were incorrectly marked as matches, for a 
false positive rate of 0.01 percent. Although humans are recognized as fal-

lible, frustratingly we cannot predict when they will be so. Thus, in a real-life 

setting, these false positives could represent six noncriminals falsely found 

guilty. The false negative rate was significantly higher, 7.5 percent, perhaps 

reflecting conservatism on the part of the examiners: The examiners were 

more likely to be unconvinced of a true match than to be convinced of a 

nonmatch.The issue of false positives in fingerprint matching gained prominence 
after a widely publicized error related to the bombings in 2004 of commuter 

trains in Madrid, Spain. Brandon Mayfield, a U.S. lawyer living in Oregon, 

was arrested because the FBI matched his fingerprint with a print found on 

a plastic bag containing detonator caps at the crime scene. In 2006 the 

FBI admitted it had incorrectly classified the fingerprints as “an absolutely 

incontrovertible match.”
