 Section 7.5  Data Mining and Big Data 
539  by other agencies. Even if the ana-
lyst could get to the originals, the 

analyst would probably never learn 

where else these original databases 
had already been copied.One important goal of databases is to have a record in one place so that one correc-
tion serves all uses. With data mining, a result is an aggregate from multiple data bases. 

There is no natural way to work backward from the result to the amalgamated databases 

to find and correct errors. 
Using Comparable Data Data semantics is another important consideration when mining for data. Consider two 

geographical databases with data on family income. Except one database has income 

by dollar, and the other has the data in thousands of euros. Even if the field names are 

the same, combining the raw data would result in badly distorted statistics. Consider 

another attribute rated high/medium/low in one database and on a numerical scale of 

1–5 in another. Should high/medium/low be treated as 1/3/5? Even if analysts use that 

transformation, computing with some 3-point and some 5-point precision reduces the 
quality of the results. Or how can you meaningfully combine one database that has a 

particular attribute with another that does not?
Eliminating False Matches As we described earlier, coincidence is not correlation or causation; because two things 

occur together does not mean either causes the other. Data mining tries to highlight 
SIDEBAR 7-6 Close, But No Cigar
Database management systems are excellent at finding matches: All 
people named Bfstplk or everyone whose age is under 125. They have 

limited capabilities to find “almost” matches: people whose names begin 
Hgw or have any four of five attributes. DBMSs have trouble finding names 
similar to d’Estaing or given a set of symptoms to determine a disease. 
DBMS vendors add domain-specific comparison engines to define “close,” 
for pronunciation, orthography, features, or other pattern-matching opera-

tions. Dealing in imprecision, these engines can produce some spectacular 

failures.
Airport security databases are in the news in the United States. 
The plight of the late Senator Edward Kennedy and former Representa-

tive John Lewis, both repeatedly caught for secondary screening presum-

ably because their names resemble those of terrorists, would be worrying, 

except that their status in the government gave them clout to suggest the 

situation be fixed. Many other sound-alikes are not so well placed. And 

people with names like Michelle Green and David Nelson have no idea why 

their names trigger more scrutiny.
Databases and aggregations have 
no backward link, no way to correct 

mistakes at their source.
