 Section 8.2  Moving to the Cloud 
557  As a result, understanding your migration options becomes an important security 
concern when you are considering cloud services.Different types of cloud services represent different migration challenges. SaaS 
offerings often present migration challenges by being incompatible with competing ser-

vices. Many SaaS providers store large quantities of their customers’ data in proprietary 

formats and allow customers to access that data through proprietary APIs. It may not 

be in some providers’ best interest to provide customers with tools to export that data 

en masse to open formats. Proprietary APIs also mean that any applications a customer 

has built on top of the SaaS will likely need to be rewritten after the migration to a 

new provider. Unfortunately, the availability of SaaS offerings that have friendly migra-

tion features depends on the application type, so in some cases vendor lock-in may be 

unavoidable.
PaaS providers offer customers the tools to build hosted cloud applications. They 
generally allow customers to program using cloud-based compilers (or scripting 

engines), APIs, and databases. Below that code, the provider handles every aspect of 

hosting. As with SaaS, proprietary APIs can present a migration challenge. Luckily, 

the general-purpose nature of PaaS helps mitigate this issue, since most PaaS providers 

support common programming languages, libraries, and database tools that customers 

are already familiar with.
IaaS offerings are the most standardized of the three service models, since they must 
maintain compatibility with common operating systems and network protocols. (Side-

bar 8-1 describes a clever way to take advantage of this fact.) The API challenges are 

much the same as in the PaaS model, though in this case those APIs focus on control 

and interaction with IaaS virtual machines (VMs). The VMs themselves are generally 

easy to migrate because there are tools for converting VMs from just about any standard 

file format to another. Some VMs, however, can cause problems: IaaS providers offer 

special-purpose VMs with unique functionality (for example, a firewall product that is 

otherwise only available as an integrated appliance), and they may have exclusive rights 

to those products. Complexity may be an issue in switching IaaS providers as well, 

depending on the extensiveness of the client’s network configuration.
Cloud as a Security Control
While moving data and functionality to the cloud does have its risks, cloud services 

can be valuable security tools in a 

number of ways. The most obvi-

ous is that cloud services are often 

excellent at mitigating single points 

of failure. This benefit comes in a 

few forms.
• Geographic diversity
. If you have only one data center, you have all sorts of 
localized threats to worry about: natural disasters, fires, and Internet outages, 

to name a few. Beyond security issues, having only one data center may unac-

ceptably increase network latency for long-distance communications. Cloud ser-

vices may be a cost-effective way to diversify geographically. Some providers 
Cloud computing mitigates the risk of 
single points of failure.
