772 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographycarelessly discard sensitive material that could give a spy access to plaintext by match-
ing known ciphertext. And humans can sometimes be bribed or coerced. 
Not only are people fallible, but so are hardware and software implementations. 
Sometimes hardware fails in predictable ways, such as when disk-reading heads lose 

their track alignment, so sensitive data thought to be erased are still on the disk. At other 

times, seemingly small things can weaken an otherwise strong approach. For example, 

in one attack, the analyst accurately measured the electricity being used by a computer 
performing an encryption and deduced the key from the difference in power used to 

compute a 1 versus a 0.
These problems are separate from issues of the algorithm itself, but they offer ways 
that a cryptanalyst can approach the task of breaking the code. Remember that the only 
rule that applies to the attacker is that there are no rules. An example of “anything that 

works” in cryptanalysis is described in Sidebar 12-4.
SIDEBAR 12-3  
Hidden Meanings Changed the Course of World War II
In the spring of 1942, the United States was fighting Japan in the Pacific. American cryptanalysts had cracked some of the Japanese naval codes, 

but they did not understand the extra encoding the Japanese used to 

describe particular sites. A message intercepted by the United States told 

the Allies’ officers that “AF” was to be the target of a major assault. The U.S. 

Navy suspected that the assault would be on Midway island, but it needed 
to be sure.
Commander Joseph Rochefort, head of the U.S. Navy’s cryptography 
center at Pearl Harbor, devised a clever plan to unearth the meaning of 

“AF.” He directed the naval group at Midway to send a message, request-

ing fresh water, saying that the water distillery had been damaged. Soon, 

the United States intercepted a Japanese message indicating that “AF” 

was short of water—verifying that “AF” indeed meant Midway! [SEI01]
SIDEBAR 12-4 Really Cold Data
Alex Halderman and a research team at Princeton University investigated 

a novel way to obtain cryptographic keys [HAL08a]. Computer memory 

chips, dynamic random access memory modules (DRAMs), lose their con-

tents after they lose power. For all practical purposes data values disap-

pear on power-off.
The performance of semiconductors at low temperatures varies from 
their behavior at room temperature. Because most semiconductors are 

used within a narrow temperature range (
20°C to 40°C, for example) 
the effect is not important. But cryptanalysis is “no holds barred” combat.
