602 Chapter 9  
Privacyof a site’s privacy policy may be easier to read and understand than the full 
version, but it is in the hidden details that users find significant items that 
affect their choices. Hence, we have a 
transparency paradox
: “transpar-
ency of textual meaning and transparency of practice conflict in all but rare 

instances . . . Both are essential for notice-and-consent to work.” That is, 

the reader needs to know the general picture of what privacy rights are pre-

served (transparency of practice), but the reader also needs to know exactly 

how those privacy rights will be enforced (the transparency of meaning). 

Neither the details nor the big picture is sufficient without the other.
As an alternative, Nissenbaum’s contextual integrity links online 
realms with existing structures of social life. For example, we trust our elec-

tronic healthcare system to protect our health data because of our long-

term experience with and faith in the existing healthcare system. We need 

to identify other such contexts and evaluate privacy within each of them.Nissenbaum points out that “online” is not a venue distinct and sepa-rate from “real life” and for which privacy can be separately defined and 

implemented. Rather, life online is integrated into our social lives and is 

“radically heterogeneous”: comprising multiple social (and not just com-

mercial) contexts. What is important for privacy is that “the contexts in 

which activities are grounded shape expectations that, when unmet, cause 

anxiety, fright, and resistance.” To address this problem, we must “locate 

contexts, explicate entrenched informational norms, identify disruptive 

flows, and evaluate these flows against norms based on general ethical 

and political principles as well as context-specific purposes and values.”How would this philosophy work? Consider paying taxes in the United States. Most of the current tax code was formulated in the 1970s, before 

such things as electronic filing existed. Nevertheless, we would expect 

the general principles of tax filing to apply to e-filing, so that, for instance, 
the spirit of confidentiality rules that apply to paper records would also be 

applied to electronic ones. Moreover, “we would not expect auxiliary infor-

mation generated through online interactions to be ‘up for grabs,’ freely 

available to all comers. Even in the absence of explicit rules, guidance can 
be sought from the [stated and observed] values and purposes . . . that 
prohibit all sharing except as allowed, on a case-by-case basis, by explicit 

law and regulation.” Some seemingly-transformative technologies, such 

as search engines, have no direct physical counterparts but can still be 

viewed within social norms and interactions. Whatever norms apply to infor-

mation look-up in a library can also be applied to look-up online. That is, 

the analogy is made not by closeness of activity but rather by closeness of 
intention and function. Where there is no obvious analogy, start with ends, 

purposes, and values, and work backwards to the norms.
Nissenbaum reminds us that privacy policies are not just about indi-
viduals and their rights. “They play a crucial role in sustaining social insti-

tutions . . . [and] are as much about sustaining important social values of 
creativity, intellectual growth, and lively social and political engagement as 

about protecting individuals against harm.”
SIDEBAR 9-3 Continued