550 Chapter 7  
Databases(CUSTOMER-ID,STATUS) and (CUSTOMER-ID,BALANCE-OWED). 
How would the transaction be performed? (c) Suppose the relations from 

which that command was formed are (CUSTOMER-ID,STATUS), (CREDIT-

ID,CUSTOMER-ID), (CREDIT-ID, BALANCE-OWED). How would the 

transaction be performed?7. Show that if longitudinal parity is used as an error detection code, values in a data-
base can still be modified without detection. (Longitudinal parity is computed for 

the nth bit of each byte; that is, one parity bit is computed and retained for all bits 
in the 0th position, another parity bit for all bits in the 1st position, etc.)8. Suppose query Q1 obtains the median 
ml of a set 
S1 of values, and query 
Q2 obtains the median m2 of a subset 
S2 of 
S1. If m1  m2, what can be inferred 
about S1, S2, and the elements of S1 not in S2?9. Disclosure of the sum of all financial aid for students in Smith dorm is not sensi-
tive because no individual student is associated with an amount. Similarly, a list 

of names of students receiving financial aid is not sensitive because no amounts 

are specified. However, the combination of these two lists reveals the amount 

for an individual student if only one student in Smith dorm receives aid. What 

computation would a database management system have to perform to deter-

mine that the list of names might reveal sensitive data? What records would the 

database management system have to maintain on what different users know in 

order to determine that the list of names might reveal sensitive data?
10. One approach suggested to ensure privacy is the small result rejection, in which 
the system rejects (returns no result from) any query, the result of which is 

derived from a small number, for example, five, of records. Show how to obtain 

sensitive data by using only queries derived from six records.
11. The response “sensitive value; response suppressed” is itself a disclosure. Sug-
gest a manner in which a database management system could suppress responses 
that reveal sensitive information without disclosing that the responses to certain 

queries are sensitive.
12. Cite a situation in which the sensitivity of an aggregate is greater than that of 
its constituent values. Cite a situation in which the sensitivity of an aggregate is 

less than that of its constituent values.
