650 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentspolicies would be the same: to prevent security breaches. But in fact the policy is one of 
the most difficult sections to write well. 
Consider security needs for different types of organizations. What does an organiza-
tion consider its most precious asset? A pharmaceutical company might value its scien-

tific research on new drugs and its sales and marketing strategy as its most important 

assets. A hospital would likely find protecting the confidentiality of its patients’ records 

most crucial. A television studio could decide its archive of previous broadcasts is most 

important. An online merchant might value highly its web presence, and the associated 

back-end order receiving and processing system. A securities trading firm would be most 

concerned with the accuracy and completeness of its transaction records, including its 

log of executed trades. As you can see, organizations value different things, and follow-

ing this analysis, the most significant threats will differ among organizations. In some 

cases confidentiality is paramount, but in others availability or integrity matters most.
As we discuss later in this chapter, there are trade-offs among the strength of the 
security, the cost, the inconvenience to users, and more. For example, we must decide 

whether to implement very stringent—and possibly unpopular—controls that prevent 

all security problems or simply mitigate the effects of security breaches once they hap-

pen. For this reason, the policy statement must answer three essential questions:
• Who should be allowed access?
• To what system and organizational 
resources 
should access be allowed?
• What types of access should each user be allowed for each resource
?The policy statement should specify the following:
• The organization’s 
goals on security. For example, should the system protect 
data from leakage to outsiders, protect against loss of data due to physical disas-
ter, protect the data’s integrity, or protect against loss of business when comput-

ing resources fail? What is the higher priority: serving customers or securing 
data?• Where the 
responsibility
 for security lies. For example, should the responsibility 
rest with a small computer security group, with each employee, or with relevant 

managers?• The organization’s 
commitment to security. For example, who provides security 
support for staff, and where does security fit into the organization’s structure?
Assessment of Current Security Status
To be able to plan for security, an organization must understand the vulnerabilities to 
which it may be exposed. The organization can determine the vulnerabilities by per-

forming a risk analysis: a systematic investigation of the system, its environment, and 
the things that might go wrong. The risk analysis forms the basis for describing the cur-

rent status of security. This status can be expressed as a listing of organizational assets, 

the security threats to the assets, and the controls in place to protect the assets. We look 

at risk analysis in more detail later in this chapter.
The status portion of the plan also defines the limits of responsibility for security. 
It describes not only which assets are to be protected but also who is responsible for 
