 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
623  discount coupon for a fast food chain. You click one of the links, and you either go 
directly to a “buy here now” form or you get a special coupon worth something on 

your purchase in person. Web advertising is much more connected to the vendor: You 

see the ad, you click on it, and both the purchaser and web page owner know the ad 

did its job by attracting your attention. (By contrast, advertisers rarely know if you are 

watching their highway billboard or the traffic.) If you click through and buy, the ad has 

really paid off. If you click through and later present a coupon, a tracking number on 

the coupon lets both the vendor and web page owner link your purchase to advertising 

on a particular website. From the vendor’s point of view, the immediate feedback and 

traceability are great.But do you want these parties involved to know that you like basketball and are look-
ing into a second mortgage? Remember that, from your having logged in to the portal 

site, they already have an identity that may link to your actual name. Moreover, you are 

likely dealing with more than the vendor and the website. Many kinds of third parties 

can be involved, many of which use information to understand your habits and prefer-

ences and then present you with targeted advertising. 
Figure 9-3 is a screen shot of the home page of Pearson Higher Education, the pub-lisher of this book. Pearson uses trackers, cookies, and beacons to capture information 

about your behavior online. As revealed by the Ghostery program and listed in the box 

on the upper right, there are three trackers on Pearson’s home page: to collect and dis-

play page visit data (Google Analytics), allow testing of different page presentations 

(Optimizely), and orchestrate the insertion of tracking code on separate pages (Adobe 
Tag Manager). Each of these single calls can invoke other functions from any sites, so 

these three trackers can be just the tip of a much larger monitoring effort. Later in this 

chapter, we examine the several kinds of devices used for tracking your behavior online, 

as well as strategies for making them visible and controlling their activity.
FIGURE 9-3 Notification of Data Tracking
