 Section 6.7  Firewalls 
465  Personal Firewalls
Firewalls typically protect a (sub)network of multiple hosts. University students and 
employees in offices are behind a real firewall. Increasingly, home users, individual 

workers, and small businesses use cable modems or DSL connections with unlimited, 

always-on access. These people need a firewall, but a separate firewall computer to 

protect a single workstation can seem too complex and expensive. These people need a 

firewall’s capabilities at a lower price.
A personal firewall is an application program that runs on the workstation it protects. 
A personal firewall can complement 

the work of a conventional firewall 

by screening the kind of data a single 

host will accept, or it can compen-
sate for the lack of a regular firewall, 

as in a private DSL or cable modem 

connection.Just as a network firewall screens 
incoming and outgoing traffic for that network, a personal firewall screens traffic on 

a single workstation. A workstation could be vulnerable to malicious code or mali-

cious active agents (ActiveX controls or Java applets), leakage of personal data stored 

on the workstation, and vulnerability scans to identify potential weaknesses. Com-

mercial implementations of personal firewalls include SaaS Endpoint Protection from 

McAfee, F-Secure Internet Security, Microsoft Windows Firewall, and Zone Alarm 

from CheckPoint.The personal firewall is configured to enforce some policy. For example, the user 
may decide that certain sites, such as computers on the company network, are highly 

trustworthy, but most other sites are not. Vendors sometimes supply and maintain lists 

of unsafe sites to which their products block access by default. The user defines a policy 

permitting download of code, unrestricted data sharing, and management access from 

the corporate segment but not from other sites. Personal firewalls can also generate 

logs of accesses, which can be useful to examine in case something harmful does slip 

through the firewall.
Combining a malware scanner with a personal firewall is both effective and effi-
cient. Typically, users forget to run scanners regularly, but they do remember to run 

them occasionally, such as sometime during the week. However, leaving the scanner 

execution to the user’s memory means that the scanner detects a problem only after 

the fact—such as when a virus has been downloaded in an email attachment. With the 

combination of a virus scanner and a personal firewall, the firewall directs all incoming 

email to the virus scanner, which examines every attachment the moment it reaches the 

target host and before it is opened.
A personal firewall runs on the very computer it is trying to protect. Thus, a clever 
attacker is likely to attempt an undetected attack that would disable or reconfigure the 

firewall for the future. As described in Sidebar 6-24, users can defeat the security policy 

of their own firewall. You learned in Chapter 4 that code that hooks into an operating 

system can be a rootkit itself, a potential threat, while on the other hand, such code can A personal firewall is a program that 

runs on a single host to monitor and 
control traffic to that host. It can only 

work in conjunction with support from 

the operating system.