 Section 11.3  Rights of Employees and Employers 
727  In the situation in which Edye 
develops a program on her job, her 

employer will certainly claim a 

work for hire relationship. Then, the 

employer owns all copyright rights 

and should be identified in place of the author on the copyright notice.
LicensesAn alternative to a work for hire arrangement is 
licensed software
. In this situation, 
the programmer develops and retains full ownership of the software. In return for a 

fee, the programmer grants to a company a license to use the program. The license can 

be granted for a definite or unlimited period of time, for one copy or for an unlimited 

number, to use at one location or many, to use on one machine or all, at specified or 

unlimited times. This arrangement is highly advantageous to the programmer, just as a 

work for hire arrangement is highly advantageous to the employer. The choice between 

work for hire and license is largely what the two parties will agree to.
Trade Secret Protection
A trade secret is different from either a patent or a copyright in that there is no regis-
tered inventor or author; there is no registration office for trade secrets. In the event a 

trade secret is revealed, the owner can prosecute the revealer for damages suffered. But 

first, ownership must be established because only the owner can be harmed.
A company owns the trade secrets of its business-confidential data. As soon as a 
secret is developed, the company becomes the owner. For example, as soon as sales 

figures are accumulated, a company has trade secret right to them, even if the figures 

are not yet compiled, totaled, summarized, printed, or distributed. As with copyrights, 

an employer may argue about having contributed to the development of trade secrets. If 

your trade secret is an improved sorting algorithm and part of your job involves investi-

gating and testing sorting algorithms, your employer will probably claim at least partial 

ownership of the algorithm you try to market.
Employment ContractsAn employment contract often spells out rights of ownership. But sometimes the soft-

ware developer and possible employer have no contract. Having a contract is desir-

able both for employees and employers so that both will understand their rights and 

responsibilities.Typically, an employment contract specifies that the employee be hired to work as 
a programmer exclusively for the benefit of the company. The company states that this 

is a work for hire situation. The company claims all rights to any programs developed, 

including all copyright rights and the right to market. The contract may further state that 

the employee is receiving access to certain trade secrets as a part of employment, and 

the employee agrees not to reveal those secrets to anyone.
More restrictive contracts (from the employee’s perspective) assign to the employer 
rights to all inventions (patents) and all creative works (copyrights), not just those that 
In a work for hire, the employer is the 

creator and owner of an employee’s 

work product.
