364 Chapter 6  
NetworksInsertionAn insertion attack, which is almost a form of substitution, is one in which data val-
ues are inserted into a stream. An attacker does not even need to break an encryption 

scheme in order to insert authentic-seeming data; as long as the attacker knows pre-

cisely where to slip in the data, the new piece is encrypted under the same key as the 

rest of the communication.ReplayIn a replay
 attack, legitimate data are intercepted and reused, generally without modi-
fication. A replay attack differs from both a wiretapping attack (in which the content of 

the data is obtained but not reused) and a man-in-the-middle attack (in which the con-

tent is modified to deceive two ends into believing they are communicating directly).
In real life, a bank prevents someone from depositing the same check twice by mark-
ing the physical check, but with electronic deposits, for which the depositor takes a 

check’s picture with a smartphone, preventing reuse is more difficult. The classic exam-

ple of a replay attack involves financial transactions in the following way. An unscru-

pulous merchant processes a credit card or funds transfer on behalf of a user and then, 

seeing that the transfer succeeded, resubmits another transaction on behalf of the user.
With a replay attack, the interceptor need not know the content or format of a 
transmission; in fact, replay attacks can succeed on encrypted data without altering or 
SIDEBAR 6-6 Substitute Donors
The British National Health Service (NHS) maintains a database of potential 
organ donors in the United Kingdom. According to an article in 
The Register 
12 April 2010, the organ donor status field was incorrectly entered for people 

who registered their organ donation preferences while applying for a driver’s 

license. Some 400,000 data fields were corrected by the NHS and another 

300,000 people had to be contacted to determine the correct value.
According to a subsequent review [DUF10], the error arose in 1999 
and went unnoticed from then until 2010. The NHS receives data from three 

sources: hospitals, doctors, and the drivers’ license office. When applying 

for a driver’s license or registering with a doctor or hospital, an applicant 

can mark boxes specifying which organs, if any, the applicant wishes to 

donate after death. The record transmitted to NHS from any source con-

tains identification data and a seven-digit number coded as 1 for no and 2 
for yes. However, the order of the organs listed on the license application 

is different from the order the other two sources use, which was properly 

handled by software before 1999. In a software upgrade in 1999, all inputs 

were erroneously processed by the same order.
The review after discovery of the error recommended enhanced test-
ing procedures, notification of all affected parties whenever a program-

ming change was to be implemented, and periodic auditing of the system, 
including sample record validation.
