 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
403  students, but not one against thirty. Similarly with computing systems, the attacker can 
try to consume a critical amount of a scarce resource.Flooding a victim is basically an unsophisticated attack, although the means of per-
forming the flooding can become sophisticated. Another way to deny service is to block 

access to a resource, which we consider next.
Insufficient Capacity
If the attacker’s bandwidth is greater than that of the victim, the attacker can overwhelm 
the victim with the asymmetry. A victim is always potentially vulnerable to an attacker 

with more resources. Examples of insufficient resources may be slots in a table of net-

work connections, room in a buffer, 

or cycles of a processor.
Denial of service is especially 
noticeable in network attacks, in 

which the attacker can consume 

too much of the available network 

bandwidth. We consider network 

capacity exhaustion next.
Network Flooding Caused by Malicious CodeThe most primitive denial-of-service attack is flooding a connection. If an attacker 

sends you as much data as your communications system can handle, you are prevented 

from receiving any other data. Even if an occasional packet reaches you from someone 

else, communication to you will be seriously degraded. Ironically, this problem is exac-

erbated by the robustness of the TCP protocol: If, because of congestion, packets 1 and 

2 are delayed but packet 3 manages to slip through first, the protocol handler will notice 

that 1 and 2 are missing. The receiver accepts and holds packet 3, but the sender may 

retransmit packets 1 and 2, which adds to the congestion.
More sophisticated attacks use or misuse elements of Internet protocols. In addition to TCP and UDP, there is a third class of protocols, called ICMP or Internet Control 

Message Protocols. Normally used for system diagnostics, these protocols do not have 

associated user applications. ICMP protocols include• ping, which requests a destination to return a reply, intended to show that the 
destination system is reachable and functioning• echo
, which requests a destination to return the data sent to it, intended to show 
that the connection link is reliable (ping is actually a version of echo)
• destination unreachable
, which indicates that a destination address cannot be 
accessed• source quench
, which means that the destination is becoming saturated and the source should suspend sending packets for a while
These protocols have important uses for network management. But they can also 
be used to attack a system. The protocols are handled within the network stack, so the 
Flooding occurs because the incoming 
bandwidth is insufficient or resources—

hardware devices, computing power, 

software, or table capacity—are 

inadequate.