 Section 13.4  Cyber Warfare 
843  military/intelligence objectives—the equivalent of special ops in the military branches 
today. It’s special warfare in the cyber world.” That is, Ghosh suggests that cyber war-

fare is special operations actions that occur in the cyber domain. Sommer and Brown 

[SOM10] offer a similar definition: “A true cyberwar is an event with the characteris-

tics of conventional war but fought exclusively in cyberspace.” Both imply that cyber 

warfare must be done by state actors, not by arbitrary groups; that distinction separates 

cyber warfare from cyber terrorism.
Where Ghosh parts company with Sommer and Brown is in the restriction to cyber-
space. Sommer and Brown doubt that a true cyber war can happen, but Ghosh sees it 

differently: “It may escalate to a low intensity conflict. Ultimately it will likely serve a 

role in traditional warfare in prepping the battle field through intel collection and soft-

ening defenses by taking out command and control synchronized with kinetic attack. Is 
Cyber War real? Yes.” 
Possible Examples of Cyber Warfare
Many actions are called acts of cyber warfare. In this section, we present a few that fit 

most definitions: They have been attributed to state actors and occur in cyberspace. 
EstoniaBeginning in April 2007, the websites of a variety of Estonian government departments 
were shut down by multiple, massive distributed denial-of-service attacks immediately 

after a political altercation with Russians. However, Estonia’s defense minister admitted 

that there is no definitive evidence that the attacks originated in Russia or that it was 

state sponsored. Both NATO and Eneken Tikk refused to view the Estonian attack as 

cyber warfare [GRO10], but others did.
IranAs we saw in Chapter 6, the virulent Stuxnet worm attacked a particular model of com-
puters used for many production control systems. The press reported in 2010 that Iran’s 

uranium enrichment facility at Natanz had been attacked by that worm, which caused 

failures of many pieces of equipment. Because Stuxnet recorded information on the 

location and type of each computer it infected, researchers at Symantec determined that 
the attack occurred in three stages and that the 12,000 infections could be traced back 
to only five points of infection: domains within Iran linked to industrial processing. The 

first successful infection, probably through an Internet vector, occurred in June 2009, 

and by the end of 2009, almost 1,000 centrifuges had been taken offline. The second 

infection, in April 2010, involved a Windows vulnerability exploited by insertion of an 

infected USB drive. Further details of the attack are available in Albright, Brannan, and 

Wairond [ALB11] and Markoff [MAR11].
But who was the perpetrator? We may never know, but the 
New York Times
 reported 
in January 2011 that Israel had built a replica of an Iranian uranium enrichment plant at 

a classified site [BRO11]. Other press reports suggest that the United States and Israel 

instigated the attack.