 Section 4.1  Browser Attacks 
241  In Chapter 2 we explored human-to-computer authentication that used sophisticated 
techniques such as biometrics and so-called smart identity cards. Although this field 

is advancing rapidly, human usability needs to be considered in such approaches: Few 

people will, let alone can, memorize many unique, long, unguessable passwords. These 

human factors can affect authentication in many contexts because humans often have a 

role in authentication, even of one computer to another. But fully automated computer-

to-computer authentication has additional difficulties, as we describe next.
Computer AuthenticationWhen a user communicates online with a bank, the communication is really user-to-
browser and computer-to-bank’s computer. Although the bank performs authentication 

of the user, the user has little sense of having authenticated the bank. Worse, the user’s 

browser and computer in the middle actually interact with the bank’s computing system, 

but the user does not actually see or control that interaction. What is needed is a reliable 

path from the user’s eyes and fingers to the bank, but that path passes through an opaque 

browser and computer.
Computer authentication uses the same three primitives as human authentication, 
with obvious variations. There are relatively few ways to use something a computer has 

or is for authentication. If a computer’s address or a component’s serial number cannot 
into believing the hostages were to be transferred to the supreme com-
mander of the FARC, Alfonso Cano. Because the infiltrators knew that 

Cesar was unacquainted with most others in the FARC organization, they 

exploited their knowledge by sending him phony messages, purportedly 

from Cano’s staff, advising him of the plan to move the hostages. In the 

plan Cesar was told to have the hostages, Betancourt, the Americans, and 

11 other Colombians, ready for helicopters to pick them up. The two plain 

white helicopters, loaded with soldiers playing the parts of guerillas better 

than some professional actors could, flew into the FARC camp.
Agents on the helicopters bound the hostages’ hands and loaded 
them on board; Cesar and another captor also boarded the helicopter, but 

once airborne, they were quickly overpowered by the soldiers. Betancourt 

and the others really believed they were being transferred to another FARC 

camp, but the commander told her they had come to rescue her; only when 

she saw her former captor lying bound on the floor did she really believe 

she was finally free.
Infiltration of both the local camp and the senior command struc-
ture of FARC let the Colombian defense accomplish this complex man-in-

the-middle attack. During elaborate preparation, infiltrators on both ends 

intruded in and altered the communication between Cesar and Cano. The 

man-in-the-middle ruse was tricky because the interlopers had to be able 

to represent Cesar and Cano in real time, with facts appropriate for the two 

FARC officials. When boxed in with not enough knowledge, the intermedi-

aries dropped the telephone connection, something believable given the 

state of the Colombian telecommunications network at the time. 