246 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
False or Misleading ContentIt is sometimes difficult to tell when an art work is authentic or a forgery; art experts can 
debate for years who the real artist is, and even when there is consensus, attribution of a 

da Vinci or Rembrandt painting is opinion, not certainty. As Sidebar 4-4 relates; author-

ship of Shakespeare’s works may never be resolved. It may be easier to tell when a 

painting is not by a famous painter: A child’s crayon drawing will never be mistaken for 
something by a celebrated artist, because, for example, Rembrandt did not use crayons 

or he used light, shadow, and perspective more maturely than a child.
SIDEBAR 4-4 Who Wrote Shakespeare’s Plays?
Most people would answer “Shakespeare” when asked who wrote any of 
the plays attributed to the bard. But for over 150 years literary scholars 

have had their doubts. In 1852, it was suggested that Edward de Vere, Earl 

of Oxford, wrote at least some of the works. For decades scholarly debate 

raged, citing the few facts known of Shakespeare’s education, travels, work 

schedule, and experience.In the 1980s a new analytic technique was developed: computer-
ized analysis of text. Different researchers studied qualities such as word 

choice, images used in different plays, word pairs, sentence structure, and 

the like—any structural element that could show similarity or dissimilarity. 

(See, for example, [FAR96] and [KAR01], as well as 
www.shakespeare
oxfordfellowship.org.
) The debate continues as researchers develop more 
and more qualities to correlate among databases (the language of the plays 

and other works attributed to Shakespeare). The controversy will probably 

never be settled.But the technique has proved useful. In 1996, an author called Anony-
mous published the novel Primary Colors. 
Many people tried to determine 
who the author was. But Donald Foster, a professor at Vassar College, aided 

by some simple computer tools, attributed the novel to Joe Klein, who later 
admitted to being the author. Peter Neumann [NEU96] in the Risks forum, 

notes how hard it is lie convincingly, even having tried to alter your writing 

style, given “telephone records, credit card records, airplane reservation 

databases, library records, snoopy neighbors, coincidental encounters, 

etc.”—in short, given aggregation.
The approach has uses outside the literary field. In 2002, the SAS 
Institute, vendors of statistical analysis software, introduced data-mining 

software to find patterns in old email messages and other masses of text. 

By now, data mining is a major business sector often used to target mar-

keting to people most likely to be customers. (See the discussion on data 
mining in Chapter 7.) SAS suggests pattern analysis might be useful in 

identifying and blocking false email. Another possible use is detecting lies, 
or perhaps just flagging potential inconsistencies. It has also been used to 
help locate the author of malicious code.