 Section 12.2  Symmetric Encryption Algorithms 
789  In [BIH90] the authors present the conclusions of many results they have produced 
by using differential cryptanalysis; they describe the details of these results in the suc-

ceeding papers. The attack on Lucifer, the IBM-designed predecessor to DES, suc-

ceeds with only 30 ciphertext pairs. FEAL is an algorithm similar to DES that uses any 

number of rounds; the n-round version is called FEAL-
n. FEAL-4 can be broken with 
20 chosen plaintext items [MUR90], FEAL-8 [MIY89] with 10,000 pairs [GIL90]; and 

FEAL-n for 
n31 can be broken faster by differential cryptanalysis than by full exhaus-
tive search [BIH91]. In short, FEAL is vulnerable to differential cryptanalysis.
The results concerning DES are impressive. Shortening DES to fewer than its nor-
mal 16 rounds allows a key to be determined from chosen ciphertexts in 
fewer
 than the 
256 (actually, expected value of 2
55) searches. For example, with 15 rounds, only 2
52 tests are needed (which is still a large number of tests); with 10 rounds, the number 

of tests falls to 2
35, and with 6 rounds, only 2
8 tests are needed. 
However,
 with the full 
16 rounds, this technique requires 258 tests, or 22  4 times more
 effort than exhaustive 
search would require.
Finally, the authors show that with randomly selected S-box values, DES is easy to 
break. Indeed, even with a change of only one entry in one S-box, DES becomes easy 

to break. One might conclude that the design of the S-boxes and the number of rounds 

were chosen to be optimal.In fact, that is true. Don Coppersmith of IBM, one of the original team working on 
Lucifer and DES, acknowledged [COP92] that the technique of differential cryptanaly-

sis was known to the design team in 1974 when they were designing DES. The team 

structured the S-boxes and permutations in such a way as to defeat that line of attack. 

The differential cryptanalysis work shows that the basis of DES was indeed solid, and 

NSA’s unexplained design changes only strengthened it.
AESBecause of the concerns about the fixed-sized key of DES and the fact that computing 

power was continually increasing against that stationary target, security analysts began 

to search for a replacement for DES.The AES ContestIn January 1997, NIST called for cryptographers to develop a new encryption system. 
As with the call for candidates from which DES was selected, NIST made several 

important restrictions. The algorithm had to be unclassified and publicly disclosed, and, 

to promote widespread use by businesses, NIST stipulated that the algorithm be offered 

royalty free for use worldwide. The DES replacement would also have to be a symmet-

ric block cipher that could operate on blocks of at least 128 bits. Finally, to overcome 

the key-length limitation of DES, NIST required the new algorithm to be able to use 

keys 128, 192, and 256 bits long.
In August 1998, fifteen algorithms were chosen from among those submitted; in 
August 1999, the field of candidates was narrowed to five finalists. The five then under-

went extensive public and private scrutiny. The final selection was made on the basis not 
