526 Chapter 7  
DatabasesAggregation
Related to the inference problem is 
aggregation
, which means building sensitive results 
from less sensitive inputs. We saw earlier that knowing either the latitude or longitude 

of a gold mine does you no good. But if you know both latitude and longitude, you can 

pinpoint the mine. For a more realistic example, consider how police use aggregation 

frequently in solving crimes: They determine who had a motive for committing the 

crime, when the crime was committed, who had alibis covering that time, who had 

the skills, and so forth. Typically, you think of police investigation as starting with the 

entire population and narrowing the analysis to a single person. But if the police officers 

work in parallel, one may have a list of possible suspects, another may have a list with 

possible motive, and another may have a list of capable persons. When the intersection 

of these lists is a single person, the police have their prime suspect.
Aggregation is becoming a large, lucrative business, as described in Sidebar 7-3. 
Addressing the aggregation problem is difficult because it requires the database man-

agement system to track what results each user had already received and conceal any 

result that would let the user derive a more sensitive result. Aggregation is especially 

difficult to counter because it can take place outside the system. For example, suppose 

the security policy is that anyone can have 
either the latitude or longitude of the mine, 
but not both. Nothing prevents you from getting one, your friend from getting the other, 

and the two of you talking to each other.
SIDEBAR 7-3 What They Know
Emily Steel and Geoffrey Fowler, two 
Wall Street Journal 
reporters, investi-
gated data collection and distribution by online social media applications, 
specifically Facebook [STE10]. They found that, although Facebook has a 
well-defined and strong privacy policy, it fails to enforce that policy rigor-

ously on the over 500,000 applications made available to Facebook users, 
including people who set their profiles to Facebook’s strictest privacy set-

tings. According to the study, as of October 2010, applications transmit 

users’ unique ID numbers (which can be converted easily to names) to 

dozens of advertising and Internet tracking companies. The investigators 

found that all of the ten most popular applications transmitted these data 
to outside firms.
Although the tracking is done anonymously—by ID number only—the ability to convert the number to a name permits tracking companies to 

combine data from Facebook with data from other sources to sell to adver-

tisers and others. A Facebook user’s name is always public, regardless of 

the privacy settings of the rest of the user’s profile; if the user has set other 

profile aspects public, such as address or birth date, those data could also 

be swept into the dossier being assembled.Facebook advertising is big business: For its 2013 fiscal year, Face-
book reported revenue of approximately $1.8 billion, with 1 million advertisers 

as clients. With that amount of money involved, it is easy to see why other 
advertisers and data analysts would like access to data on Facebook users.
