 Section 2.2  Access Control 
73  Access control decisions are (or should not be) made capriciously. Pat gets access 
to this file because she works on a project that requires the data; Sol is an administrator 

and needs to be able to add and delete users for the system. Having a basis simplifies 

making similar decisions for other users and objects. A policy also simplifies establish-

ing access control rules, because they just reflect the existing policy.
Thus, before trying to implement access control, an organization needs to take the 
time to develop a higher-level security policy, which will then drive all the access con-

trol rules.Effective Policy Implementation
Protecting objects involves several complementary goals.
• Check every access. 
We may want to revoke a user’s privilege to access an 
object. If we have previously authorized the user to access the object, we do 

not necessarily intend that the user should retain indefinite access to the object. 

In fact, in some situations, we may want to prevent further access immediately 

after we revoke authorization, for example, if we detect a user being imperson-

ated. For this reason, we should aim to check every access by a user to an object.
• Enforce least privilege. 
The principle of least privilege states that a subject 
should have access to the smallest number of objects necessary to perform some 

task. Even if extra information would be useless or harmless if the subject were 

to have access, the subject should not have that additional access. For example, a 

program should not have access to the absolute memory address to which a page 

number reference translates, even though the program could not use that address 

in any effective way. Not 

allowing access to unneces-

sary objects guards against 

security weaknesses if a part 
of the protection mechanism 
should fail.
• Verify acceptable usage. 
Ability to access is a yes-or-no decision. But equally 
important is checking that the activity to be performed on an object is appropri-

ate. For example, a data structure such as a stack has certain acceptable opera-

tions, including push, pop, clear, and so on. We may want not only to control 

who or what has access to a stack but also to be assured that all accesses per-

formed are legitimate stack accesses.
Tracking
Implementing an appropriate policy is not the end of access administration. Sometimes 
administrators need to revisit the access policy to determine whether it is working as it 

should. Has someone been around for a long time and so has acquired a large number of 

no-longer-needed rights? Do so many users have access to one object that it no longer 

needs to be controlled? Or should it be split into several objects so that individuals can 

be allowed access to only the pieces they need? Administrators need to consider these 
Least privilege: access to the fewest 
resources necessary to complete some 

task