 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
363  In this section we describe some of the modification failures to which communica-
tions are vulnerable.SequencingA sequencing attack or problem involves permuting the order of data. Most commonly 
found in network communications, a sequencing error occurs when a later fragment of a 

data stream arrives before a previous one: Packet 2 arrives before packet 1.
Sequencing errors are actually quite common in network traffic. Because data units 
are routed according to available routing information, when packet 1 is sent, the best 

route, which is the route chosen, goes via node C. Subsequently the router learns node 
C is no longer optimal, so when packet 2 is to be sent, the routing goes via node D. The 

second route is indeed superior, so much so that packet 2 arrives before packet 1. Con-

gestion, network interference, faulty or failed equipment, and performance problems 

can easily cause these kinds of speed difficulties.
Network protocols such as the TCP suite ensure the proper ordering of traffic. How-
ever, application programs do not always detect or correct sequencing problems within 

the data stream. For example, if an application handles input from many concurrent 

clients at a shopping site, the application must ensure that individual orders are con-

structed correctly, regardless of the order in which the pieces of orders arrived.
SubstitutionA substitution attack is the replacement of one piece of a data stream with another. 
Nonmalicious substitution can occur if a hardware or software malfunction causes two 

data streams to become tangled, such that a piece of one stream is exchanged with the 

other stream.Substitution errors can occur with adjacent cables or multiplexed parallel commu-
nications in a network; occasionally, interference, called crosstalk. allows data to flow 

into an adjacent path. Metallic cable is more subject to crosstalk from adjacent cables 
than is optical fiber. Crossover in a multiplexed communication occurs if the separation 

between subchannels is inadequate. Such hardware-induced substitution is uncommon.
A malicious attacker can perform a substitution attack by splicing a piece from one 
communication into another. Thus, Amy might obtain copies of two communications, 

one to transfer $100 to Amy, and a second to transfer $100,000 to Bill, and Amy could 

swap either the two amounts or the two destinations. Substitution attacks of this sort are 

easiest to carry out with formatted communications. If Amy knows, for example, that 

bytes 24–31 represent the account number, she knows how to formulate a new message 

redirecting money to her account.
The obvious countermeasure against substitution attacks is encryption, covering the 
entire message (making it difficult for the attacker to see which section to substitute) 

or creating an integrity check (making modification more evident). In Chapter 12 we 

describe chaining, a process in which each segment of a message is encrypted so that the 

result depends on all preceding segments. Chaining prevents extracting one encrypted 

piece (such as the account number) and replacing it with another.
Not all substitution attacks are malicious, as the example of Sidebar 6-6 describes. 
