456 Chapter 6  
Networksmedium. At the destination, the data enter at the bottom of a similar stack and travel up 
through the layers, where addressing details are removed and items are again repack-

aged and reformatted. Finally, they are delivered to an application on the destination 

side. Each layer plays a well-defined role in the communication. This architecture is 

more conceptual than actual, but it facilitates discussion of network functions.
Different firewall types correspond to different threats. Consider the port scan exam-
ple with which we began this chapter. Suppose you identified an attacker who probed 

your system several times. Even if you decided your defenses were solid, you might 

want to block all outside traffic—not just port scans—from the attacker’s address. That 

way, even if the attacker did learn of a vulnerability in your system, you would prevent 

any subsequent attack from the same address. But that takes care of only one attacker 

at a time.Now consider how a port scan operates. The scanner sends a probe first to port 1, 
then to ports 2, 3, 4, and so forth. These ports represent services, some of which you 

need to keep alive so that external clients can access them. But no normal external cli-

ent needs to try to connect to all your ports. So you might detect and block probes from 
any source that seems to be trying to investigate your network. Even if the order of 

the probes is not 1-2-3-4 (the scanner might scramble the order of the probes to make 

their detection more difficult), receiving several connection attempts to unusual ports 

from the same source might be something to stop after you had seen enough probes to 
identify the attack. For that, your firewall would need to record and correlate individual 

connection probes.A different network attack might target a specific application. For example, a flaw 
might be known about version 
x.y of the brand 
z web server, involving a data stream of 
a specific string of characters. Your firewall could look for exactly that character string 

directed to the web server’s port. These different kinds of attacks and different ways to 

detect them lead to several kinds of firewalls. Types of firewalls include
• packet filtering gateways or screening routers
• stateful inspection firewalls

• application-level gateways, also known as proxies

• circuit-level gateways

• guards
• personal firewalls
We describe these types in the following sections.
Packet Filtering GatewayA packet filtering gateway
 or 
screening router
 is the simplest, and in some situa-
tions, the most effective type of firewall. A packet filtering gateway controls access on 

the basis of packet address (source or destination) or specific transport protocol type 

(such as HTTP web traffic), that is, by examining the control information of each single 

packet. A firewall can screen traffic before it gets to the protected network. So, if the 

port scan originated from address 100.200.3.4, you might configure the packet filtering 

gateway firewall to discard all packets from that address. Figure 6-53 shows a packet 
