 Section 13.2  Economics 
825  A business case is an argument for doing something: investing in new technology, 
training people, adding a security capability to a product, or maintaining the status quo. 
As we have seen, because many management arguments are made in terms of money, 

computer security business cases are often framed in economic terms: amount saved, 

return for taking an action, or cost avoided. However, it is often difficult to separate the 

security effects from the more general effects, such as improved functionality or better 

access to assets. And, if after taking some preventive security action, a company expe-

rienced fewer attacks than in previous years, evidence that the security action actually 

caused the decline in attacks is often sparse. This separation problem makes it harder to 

answer the question, “How much more security does that investment buy me?” More-

over, these arguments beg the question of how to derive sound numbers in computer 

security. In the next section we analyze sources of quantitative data.
Quantifying SecurityCybersecurity threats and risks are notoriously hard to quantify and estimate. Some 

vulnerabilities, such as buffer overflows, are well understood, and we can scrutinize 

our systems to find and fix them. But other vulnerabilities are less understood or not 

yet apparent. For example, how do you predict the likelihood that a hacker will attack a 

network, and how do you know the precise value of the assets the hacker will compro-

mise? Even for events that have happened (such as widespread virus attacks), estimates 

of the damage vary widely, so how can we be expected to estimate the costs of events 

that have not happened?
Unfortunately, quantification and estimation are exactly what security officers must 
do to justify spending on security. Every security officer can describe a worst case sce-

nario under which losses are horrific. But such arguments tend to have a diminishing 

impact: After management has spent money to counter one possible serious threat that 

did not occur (perhaps blocked by the countermeasure but perhaps not), companies are 

reluctant to spend again to cover another possible serious threat.
• Risk: There are consequences to not implementing the proposed 
security. They can involve loss of market share or productivity, legal 

exposure, or loss of productivity.
To build the argument, Cafésoft recommends establishing a baseline 
set of costs for current operations of a web application and then using a 

set of measurements to determine how security might change the base-

line. For example, the number of help-desk requests could be measured 

currently. Then, the proposer could estimate the reduction in help-desk 

requests as a result of eliminating user self-registration and password man-

agement. These guidelines can act as a more general framework for cal-

culating return on investment for any security technology. Revenue, cost, 

compliance, and risk are the four elements that characterize the costs and 

benefits to any organization.