600 Chapter 9  
Privacy• the notice or opportunities for consent that would be provided to individuals 
regarding what information is collected and how that information is shared
• the way in which the information will be secured

• the rights of the individual under the Privacy Act and other laws relevant to the 
protection of the privacy of an individual.
The FTC and Congressional actions apply only to websites; data collected by other means (for example, by filing paper forms) are handled differently, usually on a case-

by-case or agency-by-agency basis. The requirements reflected in the e-Government 

Act focus on the type of data (data supplied to the government through a website) and 

not on the general notion of privacy.
Controls on Commercial Websites
The e-Government Act places strong controls on government data collection through 

websites. As we described, privacy outside the government is protected by law in some 

subject areas, such as credit, banking, education, and healthcare. But there is no coun-

terpart to the e-Government act for private companies.
No Deceptive PracticesThe Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has the authority to prosecute companies that 
engage in deceptive trade or unfair business practices. If a company advertises in a 

false or misleading way, the FTC can sue. The FTC has used that approach to address 

web privacy violations: If a company advertises a false privacy protection, that is, if the 

company says it will protect privacy in some way but does not do so, the FTC considers 

that false advertising and can take legal action. Because of the FTC, privacy notices at 

the bottom of websites have meaning and are enforceable.
This approach can lead to bizarre results, however. A company is allowed to col-
lect personal information and pass it in any form to anyone, as long as the company’s 

privacy policy said it would do so, or at least if the policy does not say it would not do 

so. Vowing to maintain privacy and intentionally not doing so is an illegal deceptive 

practice. Stating an intention to share data with marketing firms or “other third par-

ties” makes such sharing acceptable, even though the third parties could have no inten-

tion of protecting privacy. Similarly, think about what happens when Company A has a 

clear privacy policy but is bought by 

Company B. If you have supplied 

your data to A, based on promises 

made in A’s privacy policy, those 

protections can disappear when B 

takes over. So there is no “transitiv-

ity” for privacy protection.
Examples of Deceptive PracticesCartManager International is a firm that provides familiar web shopping cart soft-
ware for use by a variety of merchants. The software collects the various items to be 
Privacy notices are enforceable: A site 

that says it will not release data must 

abide by that rule, but a site that says 
nothing is not constrained.