 Section 6.11  Exercises 
499  29. The system must control applets’ accesses to sensitive system resources, such as the file sys-
tem, the processor, the network, and internal state variables. But the term “the file system” 

is very broad, and useful applets usually need some persistent storage. Suggest controls that 

could be placed on access to the file system. Your answer has to be more specific than “allow 

all reads” or “disallow all writes.” Your answer should essentially differentiate between what 

is “security critical” and not, or “harmful” and not.30. Suppose you have a high-capacity network connection coming into your home and you also 
have a wireless network access point. Also suppose you do not use the full capacity of your 

network connection. List three reasons you might still want to prevent an outsider from 

obtaining free network access by intruding into your wireless network.
31. Why is segmentation recommended for network design? That is, what makes it better to have 
a separate network segment for web servers, one for the backend office processing, one for 

testing new code, and one for system management?
32. For large applications, some websites use load balancers to distribute traffic evenly among 
several equivalent servers. For example, a search engine might have a massive database of 

content and URLs, and several front-end processors that formulate queries to the database 

manager and format results to display to an inquiring client. A load balancer would assign 

each incoming client request to the least busy front-end processor. What is a security advan-

tage of using a load balancer?33. Can link and end-to-end encryption both be used on the same communication? What would 
be the advantage of that? Cite a situation in which both forms of encryption might be 

desirable.34. Does a VPN use link encryption or end-to-end? Justify your answer.
35. Why is a firewall a good place to implement a VPN? Why not implement it at the actual 
server(s) being accessed?
36. Does a VPN use symmetric or asymmetric encryption? Explain your answer.
37. What is the security purpose for the fields, such as sequence number, of an IPsec packet?
38. Discuss the trade-offs between a manual challenge response system (one to which the user 
computes the response by hand or mentally) and a system that uses a special device, like a 

calculator.
39. A synchronous password token has to operate at the same pace as the receiver. That is, the 
token has to advance to the next random number at the same time the receiver advances. 

Because of clock imprecision, the two units will not always be perfectly together; for exam-

ple, the token’s clock might run 1 second per day slower than the receiver’s. Over time, the 

accumulated difference can be significant. Suggest a means by which the receiver can detect 

and compensate for clock drift on the part of the token.
40. ACLs on routers slow throughput of a heavily used system resource. List two advantages of 
using ACLs. List a situation in which you might want to block (reject) certain traffic through 

an ACL on a router; that is, a situation in which the performance penalty would not be the 

deciding factor.
41. What information might a stateful inspection firewall want to examine from multiple packets?
42. Recall that packet reordering and reassembly occur at the transport level of the TCP/IP pro-
tocol suite. A firewall will operate at a lower layer, either the Internet or data layer. How can 

a stateful inspection firewall determine anything about a traffic stream when the stream may 

be out of order or damaged?