 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
597  • Use limitation. Use for purposes other than those specified is authorized only 
with consent of the data subject or by authority of law.
• Security safeguards
. Procedures to guard against loss, corruption, destruction, or misuse of data should be established.• Openness. It should be possible to acquire information about the collection, 
storage, and use of personal data systems.• Individual participation. The data subjects normally have a right to access and 
to challenge data relating to them.• Accountability. A data controller should be designated and accountable for com-
plying with the measures to effect the principles.
These principles describe the 
rights of individuals, not require-

ments on collectors; that is, the 

principles do not require protection 
of the data collected.Ware [WAR73b] raises several important problems, including the linking of data in 
multiple files and the overuse of keys, such as social security numbers, that were never 

intended to be used as record identifiers. And although he saw that society could be 

moving toward use of a universal identity number, he feared that movement would be 

without plan (and hence without control). He was right, even though he could not have 

foreseen the amount of data exchange over 40 years later.
Rein Turn and Willis Ware [TUR75] address protecting the data items themselves, 
recognizing that collections of data will be attractive targets for unauthorized access 

attacks. They suggest four ways to protect stored data:
• Reduce exposure by limiting the amount of data maintained, asking for only 
what is necessary and using random samples instead of complete populations.• Reduce data sensitivity by interchanging data items or adding subtle errors to 
the data (and warning recipients that the data have been altered).
• Anonymize the data by removing or modifying identifying data items.

• Encrypt the data.
You will see these four approaches mentioned again, because they remain the stan-
dard techniques available for protecting the privacy of data. 
U.S. Privacy LawsWare and his committee expected these principles to apply to all collections of personal 

data on individuals, but reality fell far short of this goal. Instead, the Ware commit-

tee report led to the 1974 Privacy Act (5 USC 552a), which embodies most of these 

principles, although that law applies only to data collected and maintained by the U.S. 

government. Nevertheless, the Privacy Act is a broad law, covering all data collected by 

the government. It is the strongest U.S. privacy law because of its breadth: It applies to 

all personal data held anywhere in the federal government.
Fair information principles describe 
privacy rights of individuals to sensitive 
data.