 Section 6.7  Firewalls 
467  be vulnerable to a crafty attack through the operating system by a rootkit. Still, espe-
cially for cable modem, DSL, and other “always on” connections, the static workstation 

is a visible and vulnerable target for an ever-present attack community. A personal fire-

wall can provide reasonable protection to clients that are not behind a network firewall.
Comparison of Firewall Types
We can summarize the differences among the several types of firewalls we have pro-

filed. The comparisons are shown in Table 6-6. Firewall types are arranged generally 

from least sophisticated on the left to more so on the right, with the exception of per-

sonal firewalls, which are more like an enterprise packet filter. Do not, however, inter-

pret least sophisticated as meaning weakest or least desirable; in fact, packet filtering 

firewalls are the work horses of enterprise networks, quickly and efficiently blocking 

much undesirable traffic. As you study this table, bear in mind that firewalls, like many 

other commercial products, are caught in marketing wars. Products that started as sim-

ple packet filters soon began to appear with functions more normally found in stateful 

inspection and application-level firewalls. Thus, few products now fit the crisply dis-

tinct definitions of types just presented, and the cells of this table describe fundamental 

properties that may be enhanced in practice.Example Firewall Configurations
Let us look at several examples to understand how to use firewalls. We present situ-

ations designed to show how a firewall complements a sensible security policy and 

architecture.The simplest use of a firewall is shown in Figure 6-59. This environment has a 
screening router positioned between the internal LAN and the outside network con-

nection. In many cases, this installation is adequate when we need to screen only the 

address of a router.
However, to use a proxy machine, this screening router’s placement is not ideal. 
Similarly, configuring a router for a complex set of approved or rejected addresses is 

difficult. If the firewall router is successfully attacked, all traffic on the LAN to which 

the firewall is connected is visible. To reduce this exposure, a firewall is often installed 

on its own LAN, as shown in Figure 6-60. The firewall’s LAN feeds traffic to a router 

for a separate protected LAN of users’ machines. In this configuration, the only traffic 

visible to the outside is on the firewall’s LAN, whose data either came from the outside 

or are destined to go outside.poke a hole in a firewall? Only if it is absolutely necessary, is temporary, 
and is done with the permission of the system administrator. Such situa-

tions may arise in emergencies, when protected information or services are 

needed to address unusual problems. The challenge is to ensure that the 

emergency does not become standard practice and that the exception is 

removed after its use.
