xxviii Preface
We introduced cryptography in Chapter 2. But the field of cryptography involves 
entire books, courses, conferences, journals, and postgraduate programs of study. And 

this book needs to cover many important topics in addition to cryptography. Thus, we 

made two critical decisions: First, we treat cryptography as a tool, not as a field of 

study. An automobile mechanic does not study the design of cars, weighing such fac-

tors as aerodynamics, fuel consumption, interior appointment, and crash resistance; a 
mechanic accepts a car as a given and learns how to find and fix faults with the engine 

and other mechanical parts. Similarly, we want our readers to be able to use cryptog-

raphy to quickly address security problems; hence we briefly visit popular uses of 

cryptography in Chapter 2. Our second critical decision was to explore the breadth of 

cryptography slightly more in a later chapter, Chapter 12. But as we point out, entire 

books have been written on cryptography, so our later chapter gives an overview of 

more detailed work that interested readers can find elsewhere.
Our final chapter detours to four areas having significant computer security hazards. 
These are rapidly advancing topics for which the computer security issues are much in 

progress right now. The so-called Internet of Things, the concept of connecting many 

devices to the Internet, raises potential security threats waiting to be explored. Econom-

ics govern many security decisions, so security professionals need to understand how 

economics and security relate. Convenience is raising interest in using computers to 

implement elections; the easy steps of collecting vote totals have been done by many 

jurisdictions, but the hard part of organizing fair online registration and ballot-casting 

have been done in only a small number of demonstration elections. And the use of com-

puters in warfare is a growing threat. Again, a small number of modest-sized attacks 

on computing devices have shown the feasibility of this type of campaign, but security 

professionals and ordinary citizens need to understand the potential—both good and 

bad—of this type of attack.HOW TO READ THIS BOOKWhat background should you have to appreciate this book? The only assumption is an 

understanding of programming and computer systems. Someone who is an advanced 

undergraduate or graduate student in computing certainly has that background, as does 

a professional designer or developer of computer systems. A user who wants to under-

stand more about how programs work can learn from this book, too; we provide the 

necessary background on concepts of operating systems or networks, for example, 

before we address the related security concerns.This book can be used as a textbook in a one- or two-semester course in computer 
security. The book functions equally well as a reference for a computer professional or 

as a supplement to an intensive training course. And the index and extensive bibliogra-

phy make it useful as a handbook to explain significant topics and point to key articles 

in the literature. The book has been used in classes throughout the world; instructors 

often design one-semester courses that focus on topics of particular interest to the stu-

dents or that relate well to the rest of a curriculum.