844 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
Israel and SyriaMissiles fired in 2007 by Israeli planes did not show up on Syrian radar screens because 
software had replaced live images with fake, benign ones. But attribution is tenta-

tive; here is an example of how the attack is described: “From what journalists have 

discerned, Israel jammed Syrian radar and other defenses, allowing sufficient time 

to launch the strike undetected. During the attack, cyber tactics appeared to involve 

remote air-to-ground electronic attack and network penetration of Syria’s command-

and-control systems.” [MIL10]
But the network was not just disabled. “[Analysts] contend that network penetration 
involved both remote air-to-ground electronic attack and penetration through computer-

to-computer links.” Fulghum et al. [FUL07b] refer to an analyst describing spoofs of 

the Syrian command and control capability, done through a network attack. Fulghum 

[FUL07c] then described a technology likely used in this attack: “The technology 

allows users to invade communications networks, see what enemy sensors see and even 

take over as systems administrator so sensors can be manipulated into positions so that 

approaching aircraft can’t be seen, they say. The process involves locating enemy emit-

ters with great precision and then directing data streams into them that can include 

false targets and misleading messages [and] algorithms that allow a number of activities 

including control.” 
In short, not only did the Israelis presumably intercept or block signals, but they also 
inserted signals of their own into the air defense network. Envision an air defense screen 

that shows an empty sky while enemy jets are racing through the air.
CanadaIn January 2011, the Canadian government revealed that several of its national depart-
ments had been the victims of a cyber attack: the Treasury Board, the Finance Depart-

ment, and Defence Research and Development Canada. Ian Austen [AUS11] reported 

that the departments had little or no Internet access for two months. “The breaches were 

traced back to computer servers in China although there is no way of knowing whether 

those who perpetrated the attacks were actually in China or simply routing the attacks 
through China to cover their tracks.” (http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/story/2011/02/17/

f-cyberattack-pradeep-khosla.html) 
It was suspected that the target of the attacks was the confidentiality of the Canadian 
budget. In Canada, the federal budget is proposed by the prime minister; after it is pre-

sented to the Parliament, it is accepted as is—no debates, no changes. For this reason, 

the proposed budget is kept under wraps, and it is thought that the attackers were trying 

to reveal its details.
The perpetrators appear to have used two kinds of attacks, both involving social 
engineering. First, using “executive spear phishing,” they took control of computers 

belonging to senior officials in the affected departments. Then, they generated messages 

to the departments’ IT support system, appearing to be from the officials, so that they 

could obtain passwords to key systems.
Second, the attackers sent email messages, purportedly from the officials, with PDF 
files attached. When the recipients opened these files, hidden programs were launched 
