56 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
SIDEBAR 2-6  
What False Positives and Negatives Really MeanScreening systems must be able to judge the degree to which their match-
ing schemes work well. That is, they must be able to determine if they are 

effectively identifying those people who are sought while not harming those 

people who are not sought. When a screening system compares something 

it has (such as a stored fingerprint) with something it is measuring (such as 

a finger’s characteristics), we call this a dichotomous system or test: There 

either is a match or there is not. 
We can describe the dichotomy by using a Reference Standard, as 
depicted in Table 2-6, below. The Reference Standard is the set of rules that 

determines when a positive test means a positive result. We want to avoid 

two kinds of errors: false positives (when there is a match but should not 

be) and false negatives (when there is no match but should be).
We can measure the success of the screen by using four standard 
measures: sensitivity, prevalence, accuracy, and specificity. To see how 

they work, we assign variables to the entries in Table 2-6, as shown in 

Table 2-7.
Sensitivity measures the degree to which the screen selects those 
whose names correctly match the person sought. It is the proportion of 

positive results among all possible correct matches and is calculated as 

a / (
a c). Specificity measures the proportion of negative results among 
all people who are not sought; it is calculated as 
d / (
b d). Sensitivity and specificity describe how well a test discriminates between cases with and 
without a certain condition. 
Accuracy or efficacy measures the degree to which the test 
or screen correctly flags the condition or situation; it is measured as 

(a d) / (a  b 
 c 
 d). Prevalence
 tells us how common a certain condi-
tion or situation is. It is measured as (
a  c) / (a  b  c  d).Sensitivity and specificity are statistically related: When one increases, 
the other decreases. Thus, you cannot simply say that you are going to 

reduce or remove false positives; such an action is sure to increase the 

false negatives. Instead, you have to find a balance between an acceptable TABLE 2-6  
Reference Standard for Describing Dichotomous Tests
Is the Person ClaimedIs Not the Person Claimed
Test is Positive 
(There is a match.)
True PositiveFalse Positive 
Test is Negative 
(There is no match.)
False NegativeTrue Negative
