 Section 4.1  Browser Attacks 
237  compromise a computer you have to have physical access to install (and later retrieve) 
the device. You also need to conceal the device so the user will not notice the logger (for 

example, installing it on the back of a desktop machine). In software, the logger is just 

a program installed like any malicious code. Such devices can capture passwords, login 

identities, and all other data typed on the keyboard. Although not limited to browser 

interactions, a keystroke logger could certainly record all keyboard input to the browser.
Page-in-the-MiddleA page-in-the-middle attack is another type of browser attack in which a user is redi-
rected to another page. Similar to the man-in-the-browser attack, a page attack might 

wait until a user has gone to a particular web site and present a fictitious page for the 

user. As an example, when the user clicks “login” to go to the login page of any site, the 

attack might redirect the user to the attacker’s page, where the attacker can also capture 

the user’s credentials.
The admittedly slight difference between these two browser attacks is that the man-
in-the-browser action is an example of an infected browser that may never alter the sites 

visited by the user but works behind the scenes to capture information. In a page-in-

the-middle action, the attacker redirects the user, presenting different web pages for the 

user to see.Program Download Substitution
Coupled with a page-in-the-middle attack is a download substitution. In a 
download 
substitution, the attacker presents a page with a desirable and seemingly innocuous 
program for the user to download, 

for example, a browser toolbar or 

a photo organizer utility. What the 

user does not know is that instead 

of or in addition to the intended pro-
gram, the attacker downloads and 

installs malicious code. The advantage for the attacker of a program download substitution is that users have 
been conditioned to be wary of program downloads, precisely for fear of downloading 

malicious code. In this attack, the user knows of and agrees to a download, not realiz-

ing what code is actually being installed. (Then again, users seldom know what really 

installs after they click [Yes].) This attack also defeats users’ access controls that would 

normally block software downloads and installations, because the user intentionally 

accepts this software.
User-in-the-Middle
A different form of attack puts a human between two automated processes so that the 
human unwittingly helps spammers register automatically for free email accounts.
A CAPTCHA is a puzzle that supposedly only a human can solve, so a server appli-
cation can distinguish between a human who makes a request and an automated pro-

gram generating the same request repeatedly. Think of web sites that request votes to 
A user agreeing to install a program has 

no way to know what that program will 

actually do.