 Section 11.7  Incident Analysis with Ethics 
753  Extensions to the Basic CaseWe can consider several possible extensions to the scenario. These extensions probe 
other ethical issues involved in this case.
• Suppose Donald were responsible for determining allowable access to the files. 
What ethical issues would be involved in his deciding whether to grant access 

to Ethel?• Should Ethel be allowed to contact the individuals involved? That is, should the 
health department release individuals’ names to a researcher? What are the ethi-

cal issues for the health department to consider?• Suppose Ethel contacts the individuals to ask their permission, and one-third 
of them respond giving permission, one-third respond denying permission, and 

one-third do not respond. Ethel claims that at least one-half of the individuals 

are needed to make a valid study. What options are available to Ethel? What are 

the ethical issues involved in deciding which of these options to pursue?
To show that ethics can be context dependent, let us consider some variations of the 
situation. Notice that these changes affect the domain of the problem, but not the basic 

question: access to personal data.If the domain were medical records, the case would be covered by HIPAA, and so 
we would first consider a legal issue, not an ethical one. Notice, however, how the situ-

ation changes subtly depending on the medical condition involved. You may reach one 

conclusion if the records deal with “ordinary” conditions (colds, broken legs, muscle 

injuries), but a different conclusion if the cases are for sexually transmitted diseases or 

HIV. You may also reach a different conclusion if the research involves genetic condi-

tions of which the subject may be unaware (for example, being a carrier for Hunting-

ton’s disease or hemophilia).
But change the context once more, and consider web surfing habits. If Donald works 
for an Internet service provider and could determine all the web sites a person had 

visited, would that be fair to disclose? And suppose Donald wanted to sell the data to a 

commercial marketing firm. Would that be fair?
A different extension involves not an individual but a company. Instead of Donald’s 
tracking users, it might be the company (as we describe in Chapters 3 and 9). Would 

it be ethical for a firm to sell tracking data about users? Would it be ethical if the users 

agreed to the sale of their tracking data in a long term-of-use statement written in dense 
legal jargon? Would it be ethical if users were identified by an anonymous identifier 

instead of name?Situation III: Denial of ServiceThis story addresses issues related to the effect of one person’s computation on other 

users. This situation involves people with legitimate access, so standard access controls 

should not exclude them. However, because of the actions of some, other people are 

denied legitimate access to the system. Thus, the focus of this topic is on the rights of 

all users.