 Section 11.7  Incident Analysis with Ethics 
759  access control mechanisms. However, as in previous cases, the issue here is access by 
an authorized user, so the controls do not prevent access.
The IncidentEmma is a researcher at an institute where Paul is a statistical programmer. Emma wrote 
a grant request to a cereal manufacturer to show the nutritional value of a new cereal, 

Raw Bits. The manufacturer funded Emma’s study. Emma is not a statistician. She has 

brought all of her data to Paul to ask him to perform appropriate analyses and to print 

reports for her to send to the manufacturer. Unfortunately, the data Emma has collected 

seem to refute the claim that Raw Bits is nutritious, and, in fact, they may indicate that 

Raw Bits is harmful.
Paul presents his analyses to Emma but also indicates that some other correlations 
could be performed that would cast Raw Bits in a more favorable light. Paul makes a 

facetious remark about his being able to use statistics to support either side of any issue.
Ethical Concerns
Clearly, if Paul changed data values in this study, he would be acting unethically. But 
is it any more ethical for him to suggest analyzing correct data in a way that supports 

two or more different conclusions? Is Paul obligated to present both the positive and 

the negative analyses? Is Paul responsible for the use to which others put his program 

results?If Emma does not understand statistical analysis, is she acting ethically in accepting Paul’s positive conclusions? His negative conclusions? Emma suspects that if she for-

wards negative results to the manufacturer, they will just find another researcher to do 

another study. She suspects that if she forwards both sets of results to the manufacturer, 

they will publicize only the positive ones. What ethical principles support her sending 

both sets of data? What principles support her sending just the positive set? What other 

courses of action has she?Situation VIII: Ethics of Hacking or CrackingWhat behavior is acceptable in cyberspace? Who owns or controls the Internet? Does 

malicious or nonmalicious intent matter? Legal issues are involved in the answers to 

these questions, but as we have pointed out previously, laws and the courts cannot 

protect everything, nor should we expect them to. Some people separate investigat-

ing computer security vulnerabilities from exploiting them, calling the former “white 

hat” hacking and the latter “black hat.” It is futile to try to stop people from learning 

nor should we even try, for the sake of society, as Cross [CRO06] points out. There is 

reasonable debate over publication or dissemination of knowledge: Is the world safer if 

only a few are allowed to know how to build sophisticated weapons? Or how to break 

certain security systems? Is the public better served by open knowledge of system vul-

nerabilities? We recommend that students, researchers, faculty, and technologists, and 

certainly users, join in thoughtful debate of this issue, one of the largest ethical matters 

in our field. 
