 Section 12.1  Cryptology 
771  Ciphertext of Any PlaintextThe analyst, having infiltrated the sender’s transmission process, could advantageously 
cause messages to be encrypted and sent at will. This attack is called a 
chosen plaintext attack. For instance, the analyst could insert records into a database and observe the 

change in statistics after the insertions. Linear programming sometimes enables such 
an analyst to infer data in the database that should be kept confidential. Alternatively, 

an analyst may tap wires in a network and so notice the effect of sending a particular 

message to a particular network user. The cryptanalyst may be an insider or have an 

inside colleague who could cause certain transactions to be reflected in ciphertext; for 

example, the insider may forward messages resulting from receipt of a large order. A 

chosen plaintext attack favors the analyst. Another desirable situation is for the ana-

lyst to force the enemy to put particular content into the ciphertext stream, a situation 

described in Sidebar 12-3. Other Weaknesses
A cryptanalyst works against humans, who can be hurried, lazy, careless, naïve, or unin-
formed. Humans sometimes fail to change cryptographic keys when needed, broad-

cast cryptographic keys in the clear, or choose keys in a predictable manner. That is, 

the algorithm may be strong and the implementation effective, but the people using it 

fail in some way and open up the ciphertext to detection. People have been known to 
SIDEBAR 12-2 Human Fallibility Led to Cracked Codes
Kahn [KAH96] describes the history of the Enigma machine, a mechanical 
tool used by the Germans in World War II to scramble messages and pre-

vent the enemy from understanding them. Enigma was based on revolving 

wheels, or rotors, that were wired together and connected to a typewriter 

keyboard. There were so many ways to encrypt a message that even if 

1,000 analysts tried four different ways each minute, all day, every day, it 

would have taken the team 1.8 billion years to test them all.So how did the Allies break the encryption? First, they made use of 
the likely chatter over the wires about each day’s events. By guessing that 

the Germans would be discussing certain places or issues, the Allies found 

sections of scrambled text that they could relate to the original messages, 

or cleartext. Next, they concentrated on Luftwaffe messages.
Counting on the likelihood that the Luftwaffe signalmen were not as 
well trained as those in the Army or Navy, the Allies then watched for slip-

ups that increased the odds of understanding the encrypted messages. 

For instance, Luftwaffe signalmen often used “a girlfriend’s name for a key 

setting or beginning a second message with the same setting as that left 
at the ending of the first.” Such knowledge enabled the Allies to determine 

some of the Luftwaffe’s plans during the Battle of Britain.
Thus, sophisticated technology can be trumped when control proto-
cols are not followed carefully and completely.
