 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
373  • what service applications respond, and what program and version they are 
running• how long responses took (which reveals speed of various network connections 
and thus may indicate the design of the network)
For lazy attackers, Nmap even has an option by which it automatically generates a 
specified number of random IP addresses and then scans those addresses. This point is 

especially significant for computer security. If an attacker wants to exploit a vulnerabil-

ity known in a particular version of some software, the attacker need not run the attack 

repeatedly against many systems that run a different version—or even different soft-

ware entirely. Instead, the attacker first runs an Nmap scan either picking, say, 10,000 

addresses at random, or picking all addresses in a specified range, say, 100.200.*.*. 

When Nmap returns its results from all these scans, the attacker can use a simple text 

editor to select from the large output only those lines identifying the desired software 

version.
Harm from Port Scanning
You might ask what harm comes of someone’s knowing machines and services; after 
all, the reason the ports are open is to interchange data. A scanner is just picking up data 

the machines voluntarily divulge.
Think instead of two houses in a neighborhood a burglar is casing. She knows nothing 
about the first house. As to the second house, she knows two people live there, their bed-

room is on the upper floor. The couple have a dog, which sleeps in the basement behind a 

closed door. They always leave a back window open slightly so the cat can get in and out. 

And one of the occupants recently sprained his ankle, so he moves slowly and with some 

pain. Clearly the second house is more attractive to the burglar, in part because she can 

plan an attack that capitalizes on the known vulnerabilities in that house. Thus, unneces-

sarily exposing characteristics of a computing system can be harmful. 
Network and vulnerability scanners, of which Nmap is only one example, have two 
purposes, one good and one bad. The good use is by network administrators or sys-

tem owners who will explore their networks with the tool. The tool will report which 

devices may be running out-of-date and vulnerable versions of software that should 

be upgraded or which ports are unnecessarily exposed and should be closed. Admin-

istrators of large networks may use a scanner to document and review all the devices 

connected to the network (because new devices may be added to the network at any 

time). But of course, as we have shown, the bad use of a network scanner is to allow an 

attacker to learn about a system. (The law is not settled as to whether scanning comput-

ers without permission is illegal.
) Because of the importance of the good use, sound 
commercial software companies continue to improve the uses and usability of network 

scanners which, unfortunately, also supports the bad use.
Port scans are difficult to classify. They certainly are a tool widely used by network 
attackers as a first step in a more serious effort. Are they a vulnerability? No; the vul-

nerability is in the amount and kind of information network administrators allow their 

components to export to any program that asks. Are they a threat? Not really, because the 
