 Section 9.3  Authentication and Privacy 
611  Two different purposes are at work here, although the two are sometimes confused. 
For authentication, we have an identity and some authentication data, and we ask if the 

authentication data match the pattern for the given identity. That is, someone claims to 

be person X, and authentication verifies that the person really is X. For identification, 

we have only the authentication data, and we ask which identity corresponds to the 

authenticator. That is, we have no one claiming identity, but we have to figure out who 

that person is from authentication data. This second question (who is this?) is much 

harder to answer than the first (is this X?). 
To answer the first, we have characteristics of X in our database, we compare the 
person with X, and we declare a match or no match (or sometimes probability of 

match). To answer the second question, we do not know if the subject is even in the 

database. Thus, we must examine every possible person in the database to see if there is 

a solid match. But even if we find several potential partial matches, we do not know if 

there might be an even better match 

to someone not in our database. 

Moreover, in the first instance, we 

do only one comparison: is this X? 
In the second instance, we need n comparisons, where n is the number 
of people in the database. What Authentication MeansWe actually use the term authentication to mean three different things [KEN03]. We 

authenticate an individual, identity, or attribute. An 
individual
 is a unique person. 
Authenticating an individual is what we do when we allow a person to enter a controlled 

room: We want only that human being allowed to enter. An 
identity is a character string 
or similar descriptor, but it does not necessarily correspond to a single person, nor does 

each person have only one name. The identity may describe a group or category of 

people who meet the provided description. For example, a company’s sales division 

might be defined as a multiple-person identity, allowing anyone in that group to respond 

at sales@company.com
. Similarly, we authenticate an 
identity when we acknowledge 
that whoever (or whatever) is trying to log in as 
admin has presented an authenticator 
valid for that account. Authenticating an identity in a chat room as SuzyQ does not say 

anything about the person using that identifier: It might be a 16-year-old girl or a pair of 

middle-aged male police detectives, who at other times use the identity FreresJacques.
Finally, we authenticate an 
attribute
 if we verify that a person has that attribute. An 
attribute
 is a characteristic, such as a fingerprint or a DNA profile. Here’s an example 
of authenticating an attribute. Some bars, restaurants, or pubs require a patron to be at 

least 21 years old in order to drink alcohol. A club’s doorkeeper verifies a person’s age 

and stamps the person’s hand to show that the patron is over 21. Note that to decide, 

the doorkeeper may have looked at an identity card listing the person’s birth date, so 

the doorkeeper knows the person’s exact age to be 24 years, 6 months, 3 days. Alter-

natively, the doorkeeper might be authorized to look at someone’s face and decide if 

the person with gray hair and wrinkles looks so far beyond 21 that there is no need to 
Authentication is confirming an asserted 
identity. Inferring an identity from 

authentication data is far harder and 

less certain.