598 Chapter 9  
PrivacyThe United States subsequently passed laws protecting data collected and held by 
other organizations, but these laws apply piecemeal, by individual data type. For exam-

ple, consumer credit is addressed in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, healthcare infor-

mation in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), financial 

service organizations in the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLBA), children’s web access 

in the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), and student records in the 

Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Not surprisingly, these separate laws are 

inconsistent in protecting privacy.
The United States also allows state governments to regulate certain aspects of 
 privacy. For example, Smith [SMI13] regularly publishes a compilation of state and  

federal privacy laws; the main body describes the United States, and an appendix 

addresses privacy laws in Canada and its provinces. The state laws can vary widely, 

sometimes making it difficult for someone to obey the privacy laws in every state. For 

instance, in Nevada, black-box recorders may not be installed in automobiles without 

the consent of the automobile’s owner or lessee. (Nevada Rev. Statute section 484 638). 

Similarly, in New Hampshire, the manufacturer must disclose to the owner the pres-

ence of an event data recorder in a new automobile (New Hampshire Rev. Statute ann. 

Sec. 357-G:1). However, in both New York state and North Dakota, there are further 

restrictions on the kinds of data the 

recorders can capture; for instance, 
in North Dakota, the data may be 

used only for servicing the automo-

bile or for improving safety. (North 

Dakota Cent. Code sec. 51-07.28).
Laws and regulations are demonstrably helpful in some aspects of privacy protec-
tion. For example, Annie Antón et al. investigated the impact of the HIPAA law by 

analyzing companies’ posted privacy policies before and after the privacy provisions of 

the law became effective [ANT079]. They found the following in policies posted after 

HIPAA was enacted:
• Statements on data transfer (to other organizations) were more explicit after than 
before HIPAA.
• Consumers still had little control over the disclosure or dissemination of 
their data.• Statements were longer and more complex, making them harder for consumers 
to understand.• Even within the same industry branch (such as drug companies), statements var-
ied substantially, making it hard for consumers to compare policies.
• Statements were unique to specific web pages, meaning they covered more pre-
cisely the content and function of a particular page.A problem with many laws is that the target areas of the laws still overlap: Which 
law (if any) would require privacy protection of a university student’s health center 

bills paid by credit card? Is it the healthcare law, the credit reporting law, educational 

privacy law, or something else? Would it matter if the university were public or private? 

The laws can have different protection and handling requirements, so it is important to 
Privacy laws in the United States vary 
by municipality and state; few national 
laws exist.