 Section 2.1  Authentication 
63  SIDEBAR 2-10 Are There Unremarkable People?
Are there people for whom a biometric system simply does not work? That 
is, are there people, for example, whose features are so indistinguishable 

they will always pass as someone else?Doddington et al. [DOD98] examined systems and users to find spe-cific examples of people who tend to be falsely rejected unusually often, 

those against whose profiles other subjects tend to match unusually often, 

and those who tend to match unusually many profiles.
To these classes Yager and Dunstone [YAG10] added people who 
are likely to match and cause high rates of false positives and those people 

who are unlikely to match themselves or anyone else. The authors then 

studied different biometric analysis algorithms in relation to these difficult 

cases.Yager and Dunstone cited a popular belief that 2 percent of the popu-
lation have fingerprints that are inherently hard to match. After analyzing a 

large database of fingerprints (the US-VISIT collection of fingerprints from 

foreign visitors to the United States) they concluded that few, if any, people 

are intrinsically hard to match, and certainly not 2 percent.
They examined specific biometric technologies and found that some 
of the errors related to the technology, not to people. For example, they 

looked at a database of people iris recognition systems failed to match, 

but they found that many of those people were wearing glasses when they 

enrolled in the system; they speculate that the glasses made it more dif-

ficult for the system to extract the features of an individual’s iris pattern. In 

another case, they looked at a face recognition system. They found that 

people the system failed to match came from one particular ethnic group 

and speculated that the analysis algorithm had been tuned to distinctions 
of faces of another ethnic group. Thus, they concluded that matching errors 

are more likely the results of enrollment issues and algorithm weaknesses 

than of any inherent property of the people’s features.
Still, for the biometric systems they studied, they found that for a 
specific characteristic and analysis algorithm, some users’ characteristics 
perform better than other users’ characteristics. This research reinforces 

the need to implement such systems carefully so that inherent limitations 

of the algorithm, computation, or use do not disproportionately affect the 

outcome.SIDEBAR 2-11 Fingerprint Examiners Make Mistakes
A study supported by the U.S. Federal Bureau of investigation [ULE11] 

addressed the validity of expert evaluation of fingerprints. Experimenters 

presented 169 professional examiners with pairs of fingerprints from a pool 
(continues)