 Section 4.3  Obtaining User or Website Data 
261  Code Within DataIn this section we examine several examples of attacks in which executable
1 code is 
contained within what might seem to be ordinary data.Cross-Site Scripting
To a user (client) it seems as if interaction with a server is a direct link, so it is easy to 
ignore the possibility of falsification along the way. However, many web interactions 

involve several parties, not just the simple case of one client to one server. In an attack 

called cross-site scripting
, executable code is included in the interaction between client 
and server and executed by the client or server.
As an example, consider a simple command to the search engine Google. The user 
enters a simple text query, but handlers add commands along the way to the server, so 

what starts as a simple string becomes a structure that Google can use to interpret or 
refine the search, or that the user’s browser can use to help display the results. So, for 

example, a Google search on the string “cross site scripting” becomes 
http://www.google.com/search?q=cross+site+scripting &ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official 
&client=firefox-a&lr=lang_enThe query term became “cross+site+scripting,” and the other parameters (fields sepa-
rated by the character &) are added by the search engine. In the example, ie (input 

encoding) and oe (output encoding) inform Google and the browser that the input 

is encoded as UTF-8 characters, and the output will be rendered in UTF-8, as well; 

lr=lang_en directs Google to return 
only results written in English. For 

efficiency, the browser and Google 

pass these control parameters back 

and forth with each interaction so 

neither side has to maintain exten-

sive information about the other.
Sometimes, however, the interaction is not directly between the user’s browser 
and one web site. Many web sites offer access to outside services without leaving the 

site. For example, television station KCTV in Kansas City has a website with a search 

engine box so that a user can search within the site or on the web. In this case, the 

Google search result is displayed within a KCTV web page, a convenience to the user 
1. In many cases this process is properly called “interpreting” instead of “executing.” Execution applies 
to a language, such as C, that is compiled and executed directly. Other action occurs with interpretative 

languages, such as SQL, in which a program, called an interpreter, accepts a limited set of commands 

and then does things to accomplish the meaning of those commands. Consider, for example, a database 

management system accepting a command to display all records for names beginning AD and born after 

1990, sorted by salary; clearly many machine instructions are executed to implement this one command. 

For simplicity we continue to use the term execute to mean interpret, as well.
Scripting attack: forcing the server to 
execute commands (a script) in a normal 
data fetch request
