736 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsNow, however, several federal and state laws recognize the privacy of data about 
individuals (as we detail in Chapter 9). For example, disclosing grades or financial 

information without permission is a crime, and tort law would recognize other cases of 

computer abuse.
Value of Data
In another computer crime, a person was found guilty of having stolen a substantial 
amount of data from a computer data bank. However, the court determined that the 

“value” of that data was the cost of the paper on which it was printed, which was only a 

few dollars. Because of that valuation, this crime was classified as a misdemeanor and 

considered to be a minor crime.Fortunately, the courts have since determined that information and other intangibles 
can have significant value. Digital data, like many other things of value, is worth what a 

willing buyer would pay for it.
Why Computer Crime Is Hard to Define
From these examples, it is clear that the legal community has slowly accommodated 

advances in computers. Some people in the legal process do not understand computers 

and computing, so crimes involving computers are not always treated properly. Creating 

and changing laws are slow processes, intended to involve substantial thought about the 

effects of proposed changes. This deliberate process is very much out of pace with a 

technology that is progressing as fast as computing.
Adding to the problem of a rapidly changing technology is that a computer can per-
form many roles in a crime. A particular computer can be the subject, object, or medium 

of a crime. A computer can be attacked (attempted unauthorized access), used to attack 

(impersonating a legitimate node on a network), and used as a means to commit crime 

(Trojan horse or fake login). By some laws, hitting a person on the head with a com-

puter is a computer crime. Computer crime statutes must address all of these evils.
Why Computer Crime Is Hard to Prosecute
Even when everyone acknowledges that a computer crime has been committed, com-

puter crime is hard to prosecute for the following reasons.
• Lack of understanding
. Courts, lawyers, police agents, or jurors do not necessar-
ily understand computers. Many judges began practicing law before the inven-

tion of computers, and most began before the widespread use of the personal 

computer. Fortunately, computer literacy in the courts is improving as judges, 

lawyers, and police officers use computers in their daily activities.
• Lack of physical evidence. 
Police and courts have for years depended on tangi-
ble evidence, such as fingerprints. As readers of Sherlock Holmes know, seem-

ingly minuscule clues can lead to solutions to the most complicated crimes (or 
so Doyle would have you believe). But with many computer crimes there simply 

are no fingerprints and no physical clues of any sort.
