 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
195  As we saw in Sidebar 3-8, there may be no better way to entice a security-conscious 
user than to offer a free security scanning tool. Several legitimate antivirus scanners, 

including ones from the Anti-Virus Group (AVG) and Microsoft, are free. However, 

other scanner offers provide malware, with effects ranging from locking up a computer 

to demanding money to clean up nonexistent infections. As with all software, be careful 

acquiring software from unknown sources.
Natural ImmunityIn their interesting paper comparing computer virus transmission with human disease transmission, Kephart et al. [KEP93] observe that individuals’ efforts to keep their 

computers free from viruses lead to communities that are generally free from viruses 
because members of the community have little (electronic) contact with the outside 

world. In this case, transmission is contained not because of limited contact but because 

of limited contact outside the community, much as isolated human communities seldom 

experience outbreaks of communicable diseases such as measles.
For this reason, governments often run disconnected network communities for 
handling top military or diplomatic secrets. The key to success seems to be choosing 

one’s community prudently. However, as use of the Internet and the World Wide Web 

increases, such separation is almost impossible to maintain. Furthermore, in both human in price from approximately $30 to $70, that the web sites claimed would 
rid the victims’ computers of the infection, but actually did little or nothing 

to improve or repair computer performance. The U.S. Federal Bureau of 

Investigation (FBI) estimated that the sites generated over $100 million for 
the perpetrators of the fraud.The perpetrators allegedly enabled the fraud by establishing adver-
tising agencies that sought legitimate client web sites on which to host 

advertisements. When a victim user went to the client’s site, code in the 

malicious web advertisement hijacked the user’s browser and generated 

the false error messages. The user was then redirected to what is called a 

scareware
 web site, to scare users about a computer security weakness. 
The site then displayed a graphic purporting to monitor the scanning of the 

victim’s computer for malware, of which (not surprisingly) it found a signifi-

cant amount. The user was then invited to click to download a free malware 

eradicator, which would appear to fix only a few vulnerabilities and would 

then request the user to upgrade to a paid version to repair the rest.
Two of the three indicted are U.S. citizens, although one was believed 
to be living in Ukraine; the third was Swedish and believed to be living in 

Sweden. All were charged with wire fraud and computer fraud. The three 

ran a company called Innovative Marketing that was closed under action 
by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC), alleging the sale of fraudulent 

anti-malware software, between 2003 and 2008.
The advice for innocent users seems to be both “trust but verify” and “if it ain’t broke; don’t fix it.” That is, if you are being lured into buying secu-

rity products, your skeptical self should first run your own trusted malware 

scanner to verify that there is indeed malicious code lurking on your system.
