182 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programmingthe virus from being detected. If the virus is stored on disk, its presence will be given 
away by its file name, or its size will affect the amount of space used on the disk. The 

virus writer might arrange for the virus to attach itself to the program that constructs 
the listing of files on the disk. If the virus regains control after the listing program has 

generated the listing but before the listing is displayed or printed, the virus could elimi-

nate its entry from the listing and falsify space counts so that it appears not to exist. A 

surrounding virus is shown in Figure 3-20.
Integrated Viruses and Replacements 
A third situation occurs when the virus replaces some of its target, integrating itself into 

the original code of the target. Such a situation is shown in Figure 3-21. Clearly, the 

virus writer has to know the exact structure of the original program to know where to 

insert which pieces of the virus.Finally, the malicious code can replace an entire target, either mimicking the effect 
of the target or ignoring its expected effect and performing only the virus effect. In this 

case, the user may perceive the loss of the original program.
ActivationEarly malware writers used document macros and scripts as the vector for introducing 
malware into an environment. Correspondingly, users and designers tightened controls 

on macros and scripts to guard in general against malicious code, so malware writers 

had to find other means of transferring their code.
Malware now often exploits one or more existing vulnerabilities in a commonly used 
program. For example, the Code Red worm of 2001 exploited an older buffer over-

flow program flaw in Microsoft’s Internet Information Server (IIS), and Conficker.A 

exploited a flaw involving a specially constructed remote procedure call (RPC) request. 
+                                   =OriginalProgramVirus Code
OriginalProgramVirus Code
FIGURE 3-19 Virus Attachment
