 Section 6.9  Network Management 
495  have a way to export your saved data in a standard format that most other SIEMs 
can read. Knowledge that you store in the SIEM, such as saved searches or data 

visualizations, tends to be SIEM specific and you will likely need to rebuild 

such knowledge bases when you switch products.
• Log-source compatibility.
 SIEMs are continually becoming more flexible in 
terms of the types of data they can import and the ease with which they let users 

define new data types, but some SIEMs are better than others in this regard. 

Depending on the data type and the system that is generating a given set of 

logs, SIEMs may require you to install agents or intermediary servers to collect 

logs. Once you know the logs that are important to you, you can identify which 

SIEMs already read those data logs, which could read those logs with a bit of 
configuration, and which would require agents.
• Deployment complexity.
 Because SIEMs can touch thousands of systems in an 
enterprise, deploying them is generally a complex undertaking. Deployment will 

likely require a variety of configuration changes (for example, updating system 

audit policies, and configuring devices to send logs to a new IP), some of which 

will be unpredictable side effects of the intricacies of your environment. For an 

enterprise with over 1,000 systems, a full deployment is likely to take months 

and require coordination across a variety of teams.
• Customization. SIEM vendors compete on the basis of depth of built-in func-
tionality and ease of customization. Some SIEMs come with extensive user 

interfaces and a number of major data sources working right out of the box; oth-

ers offer only basic functions, but are easy to customize with scripts. Whichever 

type of SIEM you choose, be sure to understand how much of the functional-

ity you need is either built-in or easy to acquire, and how much you’ll have to 

develop yourself.
• Data storage.
 SIEMs generally require vast quantities of storage, but the exact 
amount varies greatly according to system architecture and activity to be moni-

tored. Log files listing IDS alerts are relatively sparse, while full packet capture 

can result in gigabytes of new data per second. SIEMs often manage 100 TB of 

data or more.• Segregation and access control.
 Although an important security capability, a 
SIEM also carries large risk. Collecting all of your critical security data in one 

system means placing great trust in the users and administrators of that system. 
As the Roman poet Juvenal said, “Who watches the watchmen?” SIEMs gener-

ally have robust segregation and role-based access control capabilities that allow 

administrators to limit users’ access to data and functionality, but mitigating 

insider risks posed by security personnel is a perpetual challenge.• Full-time maintenance.
 Because they interact with so many different systems, 
SIEMs are inherently complex, so deploying, maintaining, and customizing 

them are expert skills in themselves. If you run a large organization, be prepared 

to devote at least one full-time staff member exclusively to such tasks.
• User training.
 SOC analysts are generally trained in incident detection, inves-
tigation, and response, but they may not know how to use the particular tools 
