 The Web—User Side 
233  • Data display involves a rich command set that controls rendering, positioning, 
motion, layering, and even invisibility.
• The browser can access any data on a user’s computer (subject to access control 
restrictions); generally the browser runs with the same privileges as the user.
• Data transfers to and from the user are invisible, meaning they occur without the 
user’s knowledge or explicit permission.
On a local computer you might constrain a spreadsheet program so it can access 
files in only certain directories. Photo-editing software can be run offline to ensure 

that photos are not released to the 

outside. Users can even inspect 

the binary or text content of word-

processing files to at least partially 

confirm that a document does not 

contain certain text.
Unfortunately, none of these limitations are applicable to browsers. By their very 
nature, browsers interact with the outside network, and for most users and uses, it is 

infeasible to monitor the destination or content of those network interactions. Many 

web interactions start at site A but then connect automatically to sites B, C, and D, often 

without the user’s knowledge, much less permission. Worse, once data arrive at site A, 

the user has no control over what A does. 
A browser’s effect is immediate and transitory: pressing a key or clicking a link sends 
a signal, and there is seldom a complete log to show what a browser communicated. In 

short, browsers are standard, straightforward pieces of software that expose users to 

significantly greater security threats than most other kinds of software. Not surprisingly, 

attacking the browser is popular and effective. Not only are browsers a popular target, 

they present many vulnerabilities for attack, as shown in Figure 4-1, which shows the 

number of vulnerabilities discovered in the major browsers (Google Chrome, Mozilla 

Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Opera, and Safari), as reported by Secunia.
With this list of potential vulnerabilities involving web sites and browsers, it is no 
wonder attacks on web users happen with alarming frequency. Notice, also, that when 

major vendors release patches to code, browsers are often involved. In this chapter we 
Browsers connect users to outside 

networks, but few users can monitor 
the actual data transmitted1000900800700600
500400
3002001000200820092010201120122013
208207
441731897727FIGURE 4-1 Number of Vulnerabilities Discovered in Browsers
