 Section 13.1  The Internet of Things 
817  is what you might expect from a device manufactured to control an ICD, and the last is 
a normal test function used when surgeons implant this device (to make sure it works).
The researchers then abandoned their commercial controller and began a detailed 
security analysis of the ICD (in a laboratory, not implanted in a human) to infer com-

munications protocols and commands. Amazingly, they were able to determine all the 

device’s command and control sequences and then use them to communicate with the 

device from a computer–radio combination they built from readily available consumer 

electronics parts.To demonstrate the validity and seriousness of their security study, the researchers 
showed that they could communicate with an ICD device they inserted in a large piece 

of meat, to simulate a device implanted in body tissue. They demonstrated their ability 

to disable the device’s automatic defibrillation function and then use the ICD to deliver 

a 173 volt shock (which would cause the heart to beat erratically, a condition known as 

atrial fibrillation). In other words, in this experiment they turned off the pacemaker’s 

normal response to atrial fibrillation and then sent the patient into just that condition, an 

attack that would likely be fatal to a human target.
The researchers also explored ways to protect ICDs. In a technique they call zero-
power authentication, the researchers draw on the power generated by RFID devices 

(described in Chapter 9) to perform cryptographic-based authentication. Power usage is 

a significant limitation for implanted devices, which run on a battery that must be used 

sparingly to maximize battery life. So performing strong authentication without demand-

ing power from the battery of the ICD is a solid contribution to the security of these 

devices. The manufacturer has not indicated having employed that enhanced design.
The researchers describe other approaches to notify the patient of a suspected attack and to enhance the strength of their cryptographic defenses. Thus, this research not only 

raises a critical problem but proposes ways the manufacturing and design community 

could counter that problem. (The paper is a remarkable example of responsible security 

research, by carrying the matter beyond the potential attack through feasible, protective 

design alternatives.)
This research team of nine coauthors thoroughly analyzed one device; many such 
devices are available on the market. And other attacks are possible through associated 

devices that can collect sensor data and feed it either to smartphones or over the Internet 

to collection centers (such as the cloud). For example, the Fitbit device tracks exercise 

and eating, including heart beat and respiration rate. And a prototype device for collect-

ing cardiac status data has been developed at the University of Alabama-Huntsville. The 

2013 BlackHat hacker conference had two talks on attacking medical devices.
At the 2012 Design Automation Conference, Wayne Burleson and colleagues pre-
sented an overview paper laying out the challenges in developing secure implantable 

medical devices [BUR12]. Power consumption is a significant limitation to using many 

of the security techniques that might control against these attacks, such as encryption 
and continuous authentication, described in this book. An issue particular to medical 

devices is their need to enable prompt emergency use by medical staff to treat a patient 

in a life-threatening situation.These are not easily solved problems, and the number of researchers working on 
these matters is small relative to the number of new medical uses of computing on the 

market now and under development.
