 Section 8.2  Moving to the Cloud 
555  • Logging capabilities
• Incident response

• Reliability/uptimeWe address the first four categories in much greater depth later in this chapter. 
Uptime is typically dealt with by a service level agreement (SLA), a contract between 

providers and customers that sets service performance expectations. SLAs usually guar-

antee service uptime as a percentage of total time (for example, 99.99 percent uptime), 

with the service provider paying a penalty if uptime falls below that number.
The second step to assessing cloud providers is determining which providers meet 
the list of requirements you created in the first step. This can be much more difficult 

than it sounds. Cloud providers vary widely in terms of how much information they 

divulge about security architecture. As a general rule, larger providers are likely to 

divulge more detail than smaller ones, and IaaS providers are likely to divulge more 

detail than PaaS or SaaS providers. The reasons for this are practical: Large providers 

generally have more funding and staff available to address such issues. IaaS services are 

so complex and customizable that customers need to know how the services are archi-

tected, in order to understand how to configure them. In the cases of SaaS and PaaS, 

many providers document security details only if they think those details will make 

for good advertising. Sidebar 8-3 (see page 563), on another topic, as a bonus gives an 

interesting example of a cloud provider advertising a misleading security control.
In addition to reading provider security documentation, you can also conduct secu-
rity assessments. Unfortunately, a security assessment that is deep enough to be worth-

while will also be very expensive and time consuming, so you probably will not be able 

to do it with many providers. There are, however, some other options for narrowing the 

field of providers. One is the U.S. government’s Federal Risk and Automation Manage-

ment Program (FedRAMP), which requires cloud providers to prove compliance with 

hundreds of security controls in order to do business with the federal government. As 

the list of FedRAMP-approved providers is publicly available, this can be a valuable 

input to your assessment. Another standard that provides similar value is the Payment 

Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). Like FedRAMP, PCI DSS compli-

ance requires cloud providers to prove they have a minimum set of adequate security 

controls in place. There is also an intriguing newer option for assessing cloud provider 

security: the Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Security, Trust, and Assurance Registry 

(STAR). STAR aims to be a comprehensive registry of cloud provider security imple-

mentations and offers a number of cloud providers’ detailed self-assessments.
Public, Community, Private, or Hybrid?
Choosing a cloud deployment model is perhaps the most fundamental security question 
you’ll ask during the cloud migration process, and it will both drive and be driven by 

your other security requirements. While private and community clouds are generally 

more expensive than public ones, the cost difference depends on the size of your orga-

nization. If your company or a community of similar companies has enough combined 

demand to justify one or two large data centers, you can take advantage of some of the 

same economies of scale that public cloud providers do.
