696 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentswhich only files that have been changed (or created) since the last backup are saved. In 
this case, fewer files must be saved, so the backup can be done more quickly. A selective 

backup combined with an earlier complete backup effects a complete backup in the time 

needed for only a selective backup.
For each type of backup, we need the means to move from the backup forward to 
the point of failure. That is, we need a way to restore the system in the event of failure. 

In critical transaction systems, we address this need by keeping a complete record of 

changes since the last backup. Sometimes, the system state is captured by a combination 
of computer- and paper-based recording media. For example, if a system handles bank 

teller operations, the individual tellers duplicate their processing on paper records—the 

deposit and withdrawal slips that accompany your bank transactions; if the system fails, 

the staff restores the latest backup version and reapplies all changes from the collected 

paper copies. Or the banking system creates a paper journal, which is a log of transac-
tions printed just as each transaction completes.Personal computer users often do not appreciate the need for regular backups. Even 
minor crises, such as a failed piece of hardware, can seriously affect personal computer 

users. Sidebar 10-9 cited one estimate of the number of small-to-medium-sized businesses 

that do not backup their data, but experts imagine the statistics are worse for private individ-

uals. For one example of a personal 

computer user who did not perform 

any backups, see Sidebar 10-10. With 

a backup, users can simply change to 

a similar machine and continue work.
Offsite Backup
A backup copy is useless if it is destroyed in the crisis, too. Many major comput-
ing installations rent warehouse space some distance from the computing system, far 

enough away that a crisis is not likely to affect the offsite location at the same time. As 
Individuals often fail to back up their 
own data.SIDEBAR 10-10 One Computer 
 A Lifetime of MoviesWashington Post
 columnist Marc Fisher wrote in early December 2010 that 
his house had been burglarized and his son’s iPod, laptop, and cash, as 

well as a new jacket and other things were stolen. The thief took a picture of 

himself wearing the jacket and flashing a handful of cash he had just taken; 
then, the thief was so brazen as to post that picture to Fisher’s son’s Face-

book page. This was just an ordinary crime with a criminal a bit cockier than 

most. As Fisher wrote, nobody was hurt and most items were replaceable.
The one irreplaceable item was data. On his laptop the son had a 
log of every movie he had watched in his entire life—“hundreds and hun-

dreds,” along with comments about each one. But he had never backed up 

that file, let alone anything else on the laptop. “It’s gone—a reminder of the 

new reality that computers . . . have created, a world in which a document 
meant to last a lifetime can disappear in an instant . . .”
And how long would it have taken to copy that file to a memory stick?
