624 Chapter 9  
PrivacyContests and Offers
It’s hard to resist anything free. We will sign up for a chance to win a large prize, even if 
we have only a minuscule chance of succeeding. Advertisers know that. So contests and 

special offers often convince people to divulge private details. Advertisers also know 

that people are enthusiastic in the moment, but their enthusiasm and attention wane 

quickly; consequently, advertisers work hard to “close the deal” quickly.
A typical promotion offers you something small for free, to entice you to commit to 
a product or service. In the days of safety razor advertising, the watchwords were, “Give 

them the razor, then sell them the blades.” Today, the offer is more likely to be “Give 

them a free month of a service, and then automatically enroll them in continuing it.” You 

just sign up, provide a credit card number (which won’t be charged until next month), 

and you get a month’s use of the service for free. As soon as you sign up, the credit card 

number and your name become keys by which to link to other data about you. In fact, if 

you made your way to the vendor site by app or web access, there may already be a link 

history from the forwarding sites that the vendors can exploit. So even if you cancel the 

service after the first month, the link history persists and can be shared with and used 

for other purposes by many of the links in the chain.
Precautions for Web Surfing
We have seen why governments, companies and people would want to track your activi-

ties and gather information about you. In this section we discuss some of the technology 
used to perform the tracking and gathering: cookies and web bugs. As we have already 

noted, these technologies are frequently used to monitor activities without the user’s 

knowledge.
CookiesCookies are files of data put in place by a website. They are really an inexpensive way for 
a website owner to transfer its storage need from its website to a user’s computer or phone.
A cookie is formatted as a text file, stored on the user’s computer, and passed by the 
user’s browser to the website when the user goes to that site. Each cookie file consists of 

a pair of data items sent to your web browser by the visited website: a key and a value. 

Together, the pair represents the current state of a session between a visiting user and 

the visited website. The key is the URL of the site establishing the cookie. A cookie’s 

value can be thought of as six fields: name, persistent data, expiration date, path on the 

server to which it is to be delivered, domain of the server to which it is to be delivered, 

and the requirement for a secure connection (SSL) by which the cookie is to be deliv-

ered. The persistent data, which is often encrypted, is something the site owner wants 

to retain about the user for future reference, for example, that the user last searched for 

long-stemmed red roses.Once the cookie is placed on the user’s system (usually in a directory with other 
cookies), the browser continues to use it for subsequent interaction between the user 

and that website. Each cookie is supposed to have an expiration date, but that date can 

be far in the future—and can be modified later or even ignored.
