 Section 13.2  Economics 
831  difficulty of detecting and measuring the direct and indirect effects of security breaches. 
And there is no accepted definition of loss, and there are no standard methods for mea-

suring it. But there is some consensus on the nature of the problems. Many surveys indicate that 
formal security policies and incident response plans are important. Lack of education 
and training appears to be a major obstacle to improvement. In general, a poor “security 

culture” (in terms of awareness and understanding of security issues and policies) is 

reported to be a problem. However, little quantitative evidence supports these views.
Thus, in many ways, the surveys tell us more about what we do not know than about 
what we do know. Many organizations do not know how much they have invested in 

security protection, prevention, and mitigation. They do not have a clear strategy for 

making security investment decisions or evaluating the effectiveness of those deci-

sions. The inputs required for good decision-making—such as rates and severity of 

attacks, cost of damage and recov-

ery, and cost of security measures of 

all types—are not known with any 

accuracy.
We can conclude only that these surveys are useful for anecdotal evidence. So if a 
security officer points to a survey and observes that 62 percent of respondents reported 

a security incident at an average loss of £12,000, management will rightly ask whether 

those figures are valid for other countries, what constitutes an incident, and whether its 

organization is vulnerable to those kinds of harm.
The convenience surveys are a good start, but for serious, useful analysis, we need 
statistically valid surveys administered to the same population over a period of time. In 

that way we can derive meaningful measures and trends. The surveys need to use com-

mon terminology and common ways to measure effect so that we can draw conclusions 

about past and likely losses. And ideally, comparable surveys will be administered in 

different countries to enable us to document geographical differences. Without these 

reliable data, economic modeling of cybersecurity is difficult.
The Human Touch
Companies and organizations invest in cybersecurity because they want to improve the 
security of their products or protect their information infrastructure. Understanding the 
human aspects of projects and teams can make these investment decisions more effec-

tive in three ways. First, knowing how interpersonal interactions affect credibility and 

trust allows decision-makers to invest in ways that enhance these interactions. Second, 

cybersecurity decision making always involves quantifying and contrasting possible 

security failures in terms of impact and risk. Behavioral scientists have discovered 

dramatic differences in behavior and choice, depending on how risks are communi-

cated and perceived. Similarly, people make decisions about trustworthiness that are 

not always rational and are often influenced by recentness. Tools supporting cyberse-

curity investment decisions can take into account this variability and can communicate 

choices in ways that users can more predictably understand them. Third, organizational 

culture can be a key predictor of how a firm uses security information, makes choices 

about security practices, and values positional goods like esteem and trust. Each of 
Data required for quantitative decision-

making are often lacking.
