592 Chapter 9  
PrivacyWe can be informed about data collection and use in many ways. For example, entry 
into a website may require an acknowledgment of “terms of use,” which describe what 

is collected, why, and what recourse you have if you prefer not to have something col-

lected. The terms of use can also tell you what you can do if you find an error or dis-

crepancy in collecting, storing, or using your data. Similarly, when you use apps on 

your mobile devices, you may be told that some data items, such as your location or 

your contacts list, will be used by the apps in performing some task.In addition to notification, consent is sometimes required. That is, you are explicitly 
asked for permission to collect and use information. For example, a mapping program 

or app may ask your permission to automatically collect your location; if you refuse, 

either you cannot proceed with using the program, or you must enter your location each 
time you want a map or set of directions. 
As we discuss later in this chapter, notice and consent are important principles in 
privacy provision and protection. However, sometimes problems with notice and con-

sent are not as visible as they could or should be. Sidebar 9-1 describes a recent event 

in which toilets in a convention center were claimed to be capturing information for 

public benefit. Although eventu-

ally revealed as a hoax, the action 

reminded all of us that data are fre-
quently captured without consent 

and even without our knowledge.
Notice of collection and consent to 
allow collection of data are foundations 

of privacy.
SIDEBAR 9-1 Toilet Sensors Without Consent?
It was on the evening news in the United States [RYS14] and elsewhere: 
At an international conference on computers and human interaction taking 

place in Toronto, users of the toilets were greeted by the sign shown in Fig-

ure 9-1. It notified users that the behavior at the toilets were being recorded 

for analysis. This facility is proud to participate in the healthy building initiative.
Behaviour at these toilets is being recorded for analysis.

Access your live data at quantifiedtoilets.comFIGURE 9-1 Notification of Data Capture
Visitors to the provided URL, quantifiedtoilets.com, were told, “We are 
proud to be a part of Toronto’s Healthy Building Initiative, and are excited 

to deploy a preliminary infrastructure throughout the city’s major civic 
