558 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computingeven allow customers to choose from a list of data centers to house their func-
tions and data; if you have this option, make sure to choose a secondary data 

center that is far enough away from your primary one that it is exposed to dif-

ferent risks.• Platform diversity
. Many of the cyber attacks we discuss in this book are targeted 
at specific applications, OSs, or protocols. Your cloud providers will likely run 

OSs, applications, and protocols somewhat different from your own, plus those 

providers will have them deployed and configured differently. This means they 

will have a different set of vulnerabilities from yours, decreasing the likelihood 

that both your systems and your cloud providers’ will succumb to the same attack.
• Infrastructure diversity
. In addition to the software stack, many other potential 
points of vulnerability will likely differ between you and your cloud provider, 

including hardware, network configuration, security controls, quality of security 

staff, IP addresses, and suppliers.
Many companies that move to cloud services will not properly take the risk of sin-
gle point of failure into account. Instead of using cloud services to mitigate that risk, 

they will make the cloud services their single points of failure (see Sidebar 8-2 for an 

example of how dangerous this can be). Even if a cloud provider replicates your service 
SIDEBAR 8-1 Cloud RAID
In 2010, three researchers at Cornell University devised a clever way to 
combat vendor lock-in for cloud storage: engaging with multiple cloud stor-

age providers and treating each as a single hard drive in a giant RAID 

array. In a paper they presented to the ACM Symposium on Cloud Com-

puting [ABU10], Hussam Abu-Libdeh, Lonnie Princehouse, and Hakim 

Weatherspoon described a method for striping data across a variety of 

cloud providers, while maintaining sufficient redundancy across providers 

to recreate all the data in case one provider became unavailable—a similar 

approach to the one used on a much smaller scale in RAID 5.
The researchers’ prototype tool, Redundant Array of Cloud Stor-
age (RACS), acts as a proxy for cloud storage requests, then intelligently 

farms out users’ requests to a number of different providers. To help miti-

gate concerns about the tool becoming a single point of failure, multiple 

RACS instances can coordinate and act on a single customer’s behalf. The 

researchers estimate that this approach would cost about 11 percent more 

than traditional cloud storage—mostly owing to the extra data needed for 
redundancy—but is much cheaper than maintaining two complete copies 

of data with separate storage providers. Moreover, it greatly reduces the 

vendor lock-in concern because migrating away from one provider would 

mean moving only a fraction of your data.While this research is probably not ready for commercial deployment, 
it points in an interesting and potentially fruitful direction for managing a 

variety of cloud migration risks.