474 Chapter 6  
NetworksDLP can be implemented in a number of ways: Agent-based systems might be 
installed as OS rootkits that monitor user behavior, including network connections, 

file accesses, and applications run. Network-based solutions monitor network connec-

tions, especially file transfers. Other solutions may be application-specific, such as soft-

ware agents for monitoring email. DLP solutions will generally look for a variety of 

indicators:• Keywords. 
Certain words or phrases, such as “secret,” “classified,” or “propri-
etary,” are strong indicators of sensitive data. DLP solutions may also allow 

customers to search for keywords that have specific meaning for a particular 

business, such as a codename for a new product.
• Traffic patterns. 
Some traffic patterns that may indicate suspicious behavior are 
bulk file transfers, connections to outside email or file sharing services, emails 

to unknown recipients, and connections to unknown network services.
• Encoding/encryption. DLP can be easily defeated by strong encryption, because no DLP solution can determine the sensitivity of a file it cannot read. To 

address this issue, DLP solutions commonly block outgoing files that they can-

not decode or decrypt. Many malware scanners treat incoming files, such as 

encrypted email attachments, the same way.
While DLP solutions are useful for preventing accidental data leakage, they are more 
fragile than other security solutions we discuss in this book. A determined attacker can 

frequently find a way to transfer data into a system, although an effective DLP solution 

may slow the process down or alert security personnel in time to prevent it.
DLP systems provide a good transition to our next topic. Firewalls are sometimes 
called edge devices, meaning that they are positioned at the boundary of a subnetwork. 

DLP approaches can be integrated into a firewall, installed in an operating system, or 

joined to another application program that manipulates sensitive date. Thus, DLP tech-

nologies are not restricted to the edge of a protected subnetwork. Next we study intru-

sion detection and protection systems, monitoring products that are also placed inside 
a subnetwork.
6.8 INTRUSION DETECTION AND PREVENTION SYSTEMS
After the perimeter controls, firewall, and authentication and access controls block cer-

tain actions, some users are admitted to use a computing system. Most of these con-

trols are preventive: They block known bad things from happening. Many studies (for 

example, see [DUR99]) have shown that most computer security incidents are caused 

by insiders or people impersonating them, people who would not be blocked by a fire-

wall. And insiders require access with significant privileges to do their daily jobs. The 

vast majority of harm from insiders is not malicious; it is honest people making hon-

est mistakes. Then, too, there are the potential malicious outsiders who have somehow 

passed the screens of firewalls and access controls. Prevention, although necessary, is 

not a complete computer security control; detection during an incident copes with harm 
that cannot be prevented in advance. Larry Halme and Ken Bauer [HAL95] survey the 

range of controls to deal with intrusions.