426 Chapter 6  
NetworksBotsWhen force is required, call in the army. In this situation, the army to which we refer is 
a network of compromised machines ready, willing, and able to assist with the attack. 

Unlike real soldiers, however, neither the machines nor their owners are aware they are 

part of an attack.Zombies (or bots
, hackerese for robots) are machines running pieces of malicious 
code under remote control. These code objects are Trojan horses that are distributed 

to large numbers of victims’ machines. Because they may not interfere with or harm 

a user’s computer (other than consuming computing and network resources), they are 

often undetected.BotnetsBotnets, networks of bots, are used for massive denial-of-service attacks, implemented 
from many sites working in parallel against a victim. They are also used for spam and 

other bulk email attacks, in which an extremely large volume of email from any one 

point might be blocked by the sending service provider. An example of a botnet opera-

tion is described in Sidebar 6-21.SIDEBAR 6-21 Botnet Operation and Takedown
The Koobface bot network generated over $2 million U.S. from June 2009 
to June 2010 by selling fake antivirus code (as described in Chapter 4). 

Koobface (which is an anagram of the word Facebook) consists of compro-

mised systems, many of which were infected through Facebook connec-

tions. Once a machine became infected, it would send its user’s Facebook 

friends messages advising them of (fake) antivirus code to buy and install, 
thereby expanding the botnet through a social network. It would also 

become a host of pay-per-click and pay-per-install pages.
Security researcher Villeneuve [VIL10] studied the Koobface command- 
and-control structure. It used the pull model of operation, in which indi-

vidual bots periodically contact the command server to look for more work. 

The command server would convert some of the bots into proxies that other 

bots would contact, so few bots—only the proxies—had the address of 

the real server. The command server also had the IP addresses of most 

antivirus manufacturers and commercial security research firms, and it 

would block any connection from those addresses, to thwart researchers’ 

attempts to interact with the server.
Villeneuve describes the difficulties of investigating Koobface with the 
intention of criminal prosecution. Botnets tend to be multinational entities 

with pieces in many countries, thus complicating prosecution because of 

different laws, standards of evidence, investigative practices, and judicial 

structures. The key elements of botnets use crime-friendly hosting services 

that protect their clients from abuse complaints and takedown requests. 

Thus, both law enforcement officials and network security administrators 

have difficulty taking action against major botnets.
