12 Chapter 1  
Introduction• The service or system involved follows a philosophy of fault tolerance, whereby 
hardware or software faults lead to graceful cessation of service or to work-

arounds rather than to crashes and abrupt loss of information. (Cessation does 
mean end; whether it is graceful or not, ultimately the system is unavailable. 

However, with fair warning of the system’s stopping, the user may be able to 

move to another system and continue work.)
• The service or system can be used easily and in the way it was intended to 
be used. (This is a characteristic of usability, but an unusable system may also 

cause an availability failure.)
As you can see, expectations of availability are far-reaching. In Figure 1-7 we depict 
some of the properties with which availability overlaps. Indeed, the security community 

is just beginning to understand what availability implies and how to ensure it.
A person or system can do three basic things with a data item: view 

it, modify it, or use it. Thus, viewing 

(confidentiality), modifying (integ-

rity), and using (availability) are the 

basic modes of access that computer 
security seeks to preserve.
A paradigm of computer security is access control
: To implement a policy, com-
puter security controls all accesses by all subjects to all protected objects in all modes 
of access. A small, centralized control of access is fundamental to preserving confi-

dentiality and integrity, but it is not clear that a single access control point can enforce 

availability. Indeed, experts on dependability will note that single points of control can 

become single points of failure, making it easy for an attacker to destroy availability by 

disabling the single control point. Much of computer security’s past success has focused 

on confidentiality and integrity; there are models of confidentiality and integrity, for 
PerformanceCapacityUsabilityFault
Tolerance
Availability
FIGURE 1-7 Availability and Related Aspects
Computer security seeks to prevent 

unauthorized viewing (confidentiality) 
or modification (integrity) of data while 
preserving access (availability).
