 Section 11.1  Protecting Programs and Data 
707  author’s right to a fair return for the work, while encouraging others to use the underly-
ing ideas. Unfair use of a copyrighted item is called 
piracy.The invention of the photocopier made it more difficult to enforce fair use. Today 
many commercial copy shops will copy a portion—sometimes an entire chapter—of a 

book or a single article out of a journal but refuse to copy an entire volume, citing fair 

use. With photocopiers, the quality of the copy degrades with each copy, as you know if 

you have ever tried to read a copy of a copy of a copy of a paper.
Digital technology has in some ways overtaken photocopiers. Digital media can be 
copied exactly, with no degradation in quality: A copy of a PDF file will print exactly 

the same as did the original, as will a copy of that copy. Thus, an e-book represented as 

a PDF (or other rendering format) file can be copied perfectly an unlimited number of 

times. In theory, then, a publisher might sell only one copy of an e-book, and one user 

could make unlimited copies to give to friends, all of whom could make copies for their 

friends, and so forth. (In this section when we say someone “can copy” we mean the 

person has the technological ability, not necessarily the legal or moral right.) You have 

probably seen the upheaval with e-books, CDs and other music format, DVDs and other 

movie media, graphic art works, and similar works of art now viewed digitally. Side-

bar 11-1 illuminates another issue involving digital copies. Publishers, authors, artists, 

viewers, publicists, venue owners, and politicians are searching desperately for a way 

to allow digital access but protect originators’ rights to profit. As of this writing, various 

copy protection schemes are holding the field together, but cross-device compatibility 

is almost nonexistent.
SIDEBAR 11-1 Napster: No Right to Copy
Napster is a web-based clearinghouse for musical files. To see why its exis-
tence was problematic, we must first consider its predecessor, a firm named 

MP3. MP3.com was an archive for digital files of music. Users might obtain 

the MP3 file of a particular song for their personal listening pleasure. Eventu-

ally, one of the users would upload a file to MP3.com, which made it available 

to others. In May 2000, the courts ruled that MP3.com had illegally copied 

over 45,000 audio CDs and had distributed copyrighted works illegally.
To address the legal issues, music lovers sought an approach one 
step away from actual distribution, thereby trying to stay barely legal under 

U.S. laws. Instead of being a digital archive, Napster was redesigned to 

be a clearinghouse for individuals. A person might register with Napster to 

document that he or she had a digital version of a particular performance 

by an artist. A second person would express interest in that recording, and 

Napster would connect the two. Thus, Napster never actually touched the 
file itself. Instead, Napster operated a peer-to-peer file swapping service, 

much as eBay facilitates buying and selling of objects without its ever 

entering into the transaction.In February 2001, the U.S. 9th Circuit Court ruled that Napster 
infringed on the copyrights of various artists. The Recording Industry Asso-

ciation of America brought the suit, representing thousands of performers.
(continues)