504 Chapter 7  
DatabasesThe rules of a database identify the columns with names. The name of each column is 
called an attribute 
of the database. A 
relation 
is a set of columns. For example, using the 
database in Table 7-2, we see that NAME–ZIP is a relation formed by taking the NAME 

and ZIP columns, as shown in Table 7-3. The relation specifies clusters of related data 

values, in much the same way that the relation “mother of” specifies a relationship among 

pairs of humans. In this example, each cluster contains a pair of elements, a NAME and 

a ZIP. Other relations can have more 

columns, so each cluster may be a 
triple, a 4-tuple, or an n-tuple (for some value 
n) of elements.TABLE 7-3 
Relation in a DatabaseNameZip
ADAMS43210
BENCHLY60603
CARTER43210
Relations in a database show some connection among data in tables.QueriesUsers interact with database managers through commands to the DBMS that retrieve, 
modify, add, or delete fields and records of the database. A command is called a 
query. Database management systems have precise rules of syntax for queries. Most query 

languages use an English-like notation, and many are based on SQL, a structured query 

language originally developed by IBM. We have written the example queries in this 

chapter to resemble English sentences so that they are easy to understand. For example, 

the querySELECT NAME = 'ADAMS'retrieves all records having the value 
ADAMS 
in the NAME field.
The result of executing a query is a subschema. One way to form a subschema of 
a database is by selecting records meeting certain conditions. For example, we might 

select records in which ZIP=43210, producing the result shown in Table 7-4.
Other, more complex, selection criteria are possible, with logical operators such as 
and (^) and or (^), and comparisons such as less than (<). An example of a select 
query isSELECT (ZIP='43210') ^ (NAME='ADAMS')After having selected records, we may 
project 
these records onto one or more attri-butes. The select operation identifies certain rows from the database, and a project 

operation extracts the values from certain fields (columns) of those records. The result 

of a select-project operation is the set of values of specified attributes for the selected 

records. For example, we might select records meeting the condition ZIP=43210 and 
