 Section 5.3  Rootkit 
329  hardware. So positioned, the rootkit can circumvent, disable, or alter the work of the 
operating system; in essence, the rootkit controls the operating system. As you can well 

imagine, rootkits are a pernicious threat for computer system security.
5.3 ROOTKIT
In the Unix operating system root
 is the identity of the most powerful user, owning 
sensitive system resources such as memory and performing powerful actions such as 

creating users and killing processes. The identity 
root
 is not normally a user with login 
credentials; instead it is the name of the entity (subject) established to own and run 

all primitive system tasks (and these tasks create the remaining user identities such 

as admin and ordinary users). Thus, 

compromising—becoming—a task 

with root privilege is a hacker’s ulti-

mate goal because from that posi-

tion the hacker has complete and 

unrestricted system control.As you have seen, there are two types of attackers: those who craft new attacks and 
those who merely execute someone else’s brainchild. The latter far outnumber the for-

mer, but the new attacks are especially troublesome because they are new, and therefore 

unknown to protection tools and response teams. As we explain in Chapter 3, people 

who execute attack code from someone else are sometimes pejoratively called “script 

kiddies” because they simply execute someone else’s attack script or package. An attack 

package that attains root status is 

called a rootkit
. In this section 
we look at rootkits to see how the 

power of root can be used to cause 

serious and hard-to-eradicate harm.Phone RootkitResearchers at Rutgers University [BIC10] demonstrated an ability to load a rootkit 

onto a mobile phone. The operating system of a mobile phone is rather simple, although 

smartphones with their rich functionality demand a more complex operating system to 

support a graphical user interface, downloadable applications, and files of associated 

data. The complexity of the operating system led to more opportunities for attack and, 

ultimately, a rootkit. Rootkits can exist on any operating system; the Rutgers research-

ers chose to investigate this platform because it is relatively simple and many users 

forget—or are unaware—it is an operating system that can be compromised. The points 

in this research apply equally to operating systems for more traditional computers.In one test, the researchers demonstrated a rootkit that could turn on a phone’s micro-
phone without the owner’s knowing it happened. In such a case, the attacker would send 

an invisible text message to the infected phone, telling it to place a call and turn on the 

microphone; imagine the impact of such an attack when the phone’s owner is in a meet-

ing on which the attacker wants to eavesdrop.
Root: most privileged subject (in a Unix 
system)Rootkit: Tool or script that obtains 

privileges of root
