494 Chapter 6  
Networksregularly collect such log files from throughout an enterprise, updating SOC personnel 
on the company’s security status every few seconds. 
But SIEMs don’t just collect the information; they can do a lot to help SOC analysts 
make sense of it. With all of that security event data in one place, analysts can look for 

patterns across the enterprise and over time frames spanning months or even years. 

Many SIEMs allow analysts to organize data in countless interesting ways. For instance, 

a SOC analyst might notice a spike in login events in the middle of the night and want to 

investigate. The SIEM would allow the analyst to search for all login events between the 

hours of, say, 1:00–4:00 AM Eastern Time, and then continue to investigate based on 

other factors, such as IP address, apparent source country, targeted systems, or targeted 

usernames. The ability to run searches like these and quickly investigate hunches across 

all of a company’s systems is a fundamental breakthrough for near real-time security 

analysis.These search features lend themselves to an IDS-like capability for signature-based 
detection. Most SIEMs allow users to create and share searches set to run at regular 

intervals and generate responses based on the results. For example, an analyst might 

create a rule that looks for three failed logon attempts against a single host within any 

five-minute time frame. In case the rule ever finds any such behavior, the analyst can 

have it alert on-screen, email him/her, or even run a custom script. This is not a replace-

ment for IDS capability, but rather a complement: SIEMs can match more complex 

rules against a wide variety of log sources across an enterprise, but their rule-matching 

is slow compared to IDSs, and they are ill suited for analyzing network traffic.
In addition to organizing log data and making it searchable, most SIEMs also have 
features to enable SOC analyst workflows. One common feature among SIEMs is to 

allow analysts to “claim” events for investigation, giving SOC teams a straightforward 

way to divide workload. These SIEMs then allow the analysts to annotate an event with 

notes from the investigation and either place the event in a queue for further analysis or 

close the investigation.
SIEM ChallengesAlthough SIEMs have evolved into essential security tools for any large enterprise, they 
are complex systems that are difficult to deploy, maintain, and use. Here are some of the 

issues to consider when choosing a SIEM:• Cost. A commercial SIEM solution for a large company can cost millions of 
dollars, but some open-source SIEMs are free. An organization’s size, system 

complexity, functional and performance requirements, and appetite for custom 

development should all help inform its choice of SIEM. While millions of dol-

lars for an off-the-shelf software product may seem exorbitant at first blush, its 

purchase will depend on the needs of the organization. If a company needs to 

create custom features and pay for expert support, maintenance, and training, 

a free open-source solution may end up costing more than the supported com-

mercial product.• Data portability.
 Requirements evolve, and the SIEM that meets today’s needs 
will someday need replacing. Before choosing a SIEM, ensure that you will 
