792 Chapter 12  
Details of CryptographyNevertheless, cryptanalysts have continued to explore AES. From its introduction in 
2001 there have been minor exposures of an academic interest, but nothing threatening 

the security of AES. One researcher described one of these attacks: “While these com-

plexities are much faster than exhaustive search, they are completely non-practical, and 

do not seem to pose any real threat to the security of AES-based systems.” [BIR10b] 

That research effort went on to demonstrate an attack that reduced from 2
256 to 2
45 the 
effort to deduce a single key, 
but this attack used a 10-round version of AES, not the 
standard 14 rounds.
 Such an attack is a noticeable reduction in time, but the attack 
is rather like fighting a man who has one hand tied behind his back. A fairer attack 

is presented by Andrey Bogdanov and colleagues [BOG11], in which they reduce the 

complexity of deriving a key by a multiple of four, that is, from 2
256 to 2
252, with simi-lar results for 128- and 192-bit key versions. Reducing the work by a factor of four is 

hardly any change at all.
No attack to date has raised serious question as to the overall strength of AES.
RC2, RC4, RC5, and RC6The RC2, RC4, RC5, and RC6 ciphers all come from Ronald Rivest, one of the inven-

tors of the RSA algorithm and founder of RSA Laboratories. (The RC in the names may 
mean either “Rivest cipher” or “Ron’s code,” depending on which source you believe.) 

The ciphers are structurally different, but all have some degree of common use, so we 

explore them briefly here.
RC2RC2 is a block cipher designed as a simple and fast algorithm [KNU02]. Although 
Rivest originally intended the algorithm to be proprietary, someone released its design 

description on the Internet in 1996. The algorithm’s most significant characteristic is its small key length: 40 bits. When 
it was designed, the U.S. government restricted the strength (measured by key length) of 

cryptographic applications for export to no more than 40 bits. (Note that a 56-bit DES 

key was recovered in a short time just a year later, so a 40-bit key was certain to be eas-

ily recovered by any organization wanting to crack encryption.) The algorithm was first 

intended for international use by the Lotus Notes office application suite; it would use a 

short enough key to satisfy U.S. export restrictions to most countries, thereby assuring 

Lotus of international marketability. 
In fact, RC2 could support key sizes from 8 to 128 bits, conferring strength exceed-
ing that of DES against exhaustive key search. Its operation is similar enough to DES 

that it can be substituted for DES in applications, creating an international edition with 
no difficulty. With relaxation of export restrictions in 2000, the need for a shorter-key 

DES replacement has fallen.
RC2 consists of two operations: mixing and mashing. In mixing, a bit stream under-
goes some transposition in the form of bit shifting with concurrent substitution through 
binary (AND, OR, NOT) operations on parts of the bits. During each round of mixing, 

a complete shuffle of bits occurs from right, moving left, and cycling around to the right 
