 Section 10.1  Security Planning 
655  People building, using, and maintaining the system play many roles. Each role can 
take some responsibility for one or more aspects of security. Consider, for example, the 

groups listed below.
• Users
 of personal computers or other devices
 may be responsible for the secu-
rity of their own machines. Alternatively, the security plan may designate one 

person or group to be coordinator of personal computer security. 
• Project leaders
 may be responsible for the security of data and computations.• Managers
 may be responsible for seeing that the people they supervise imple-
ment security measures.• Database administrators
 may be responsible for the access to and integrity of 
data in their databases. • Information officers
 may be responsible for overseeing the creation and use of data; 
these officers may also be responsible for retention and proper disposal of data. 
• Personnel staff members
 may be responsible for security involving employees, 
for example, screening potential employees for trustworthiness and arranging 

security training programs. TimetableA comprehensive security plan cannot be executed instantly. The security plan includes 
a timetable that shows how and when the elements of the plan will be performed. These 

dates also set milestones so that management can track the progress of implementation.It may be desirable to implement the security practices over time. For example, if the 
controls are expensive or complicated, they may be acquired and implemented gradu-

ally. Similarly, procedural controls may require staff training to ensure that everyone 

understands and accepts the reason for the control. The plan should specify the order in 

which the controls are to be implemented so that the most serious exposures are covered 

as soon as possible.Furthermore, the plan must be extensible. Conditions will change: New equipment 
will be acquired, new degrees and modes of connectivity will be requested, and new 

threats will be identified. The plan must include a procedure for change and growth, so 

that the security aspects of changes are considered as a part of preparing for the change, 
not for adding security after the change has been made. The plan should also contain 

a schedule for periodic review. Even though there may have been no obvious, major 

growth, most organizations experience modest change every day. At some point the 

cumulative impact of the change is enough to require that the plan be modified.
Plan MaintenanceGood intentions are not enough when it comes to security. We must not only take care 
in defining requirements and controls, but we must also find ways for evaluating a sys-

tem’s security to be sure that the system is as secure as we intend it to be. Thus, the 

security plan must call for reviewing the security situation periodically. As users, data, 

and equipment change, new exposures may develop. In addition, the current means of 

control may become obsolete or ineffective (such as when faster processor times enable 
