738 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsU.S. Computer Fraud and Abuse ActThe primary federal statute, 18 USC 1030, was enacted in 1984 and has been amended 
several times since. This statute prohibits
• unauthorized access to a computer containing data protected for national defense 
or foreign relations concerns• unauthorized access to a computer containing certain banking or financial 
information• unauthorized access, use, modification, destruction, or disclosure of a computer 
or information in a computer operated on behalf of the U.S. government
• accessing without permission a “protected computer,” which the courts now 
interpret to include any computer connected to the Internet
• computer fraud

• transmitting code that causes damage to a computer system or network

• trafficking in computer passwords
Penalties range from $5,000 to $100,000 or twice the value obtained by the offense, 
whichever is higher, or imprisonment from 1 year to 20 years, or both.
U.S. Economic Espionage ActThis 1996 act outlaws use of a computer for foreign espionage to benefit a foreign coun-
try or business or theft of trade secrets.
U.S. Freedom of Information Act
The Freedom of Information Act provides public access to information collected by the 
executive branch of the federal government. The act requires disclosure of any avail-

able data, unless the data fall under one of several specific exceptions, such as national 

security or personal privacy. The law’s original intent was to release to individuals any 

information the government had collected on them. However, more corporations than 

individuals file requests for information as a means of obtaining information about the 

workings of the government. Even foreign governments can file for information. This 

act applies only to government agencies, although similar laws could require disclosure 

from private sources. The law’s effect is to require increased classification and protec-

tion for sensitive information.
U.S. Privacy ActThe Privacy Act of 1974 protects the privacy of personal data collected by the govern-
ment. An individual is allowed to determine what data have been collected on him or 

her, for what purpose, and to whom such information has been disseminated. An addi-

tional use of the law is to prevent one government agency from accessing data collected 

by another agency for another purpose. This act requires diligent efforts to preserve the 

secrecy of private data collected.
