750 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsSummary of Ethical TheoriesWe have seen two bases of ethical theories, each applied in two ways. Simply stated, 
the two bases are consequence based and rule based, and the applications are either 

individual or universal. These theories are depicted in Table 11-4.
In the next section, we apply these theories to analyze certain situations that arise in 
the ethics of computer security.
11.7 INCIDENT ANALYSIS WITH ETHICS
To understand how ethics affects professional actions, ethicists often study example situa-

tions. The remainder of this section consists of several representative examples. The struc-

ture of these cases is modeled after ones developed by Donn Parker [PAR79] as part of the 

AFIPS/NSF study of ethics in computing and technology. Each scenario study is designed 

to bring out certain ethical points, some of which are listed following the case. You should 

reflect on each case, determining for yourself what the most influential points are. These 

cases are suitable for use in a class discussion, during which other values will certainly 

be mentioned. Finally, each incident reaches no conclusion because each individual must 

assess the ethical situation alone. In a class discussion it may be appropriate to take a vote. 

Remember, however, that ethics are not determined by majority rule. Those siding with 

the majority are not “right,” and the rest are not “wrong.”
Situation I: Use of Computer ServicesThis study concerns deciding what is the appropriate use of computer time. Use of 

computer time is a question both of access by one person and of availability of quality 

of service to others. The person involved is permitted to access computing facilities for 

a certain purpose. Many companies rely on an unwritten standard of behavior that gov-

erns the actions of people who have legitimate access to a computing system. The ethi-

cal issues involved in this study can lead to an understanding of that unwritten standard.
The IncidentDave works as a programmer for a large software company. He writes and tests utility 
programs such as compilers. His company operates two computing shifts: During the day, 

program development and online applications are run; at night, batch production jobs are 
TABLE 11-4 
Bases of Ethical Theories
Consequence-BasedRule-Based
Individual
based on consequences to individual
based on rules acquired by the individual—
from religion, experience, analysis
Universal
based on consequences to all of societybased on universal rules, evident to 
everyone
