194 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programmingwould have to look for both patterns. A virus that can change its appearance is called a 
polymorphic
 virus. (Poly
 means “many” and 
morph means “form.”)
A two-form polymorphic virus can be handled easily as two independent viruses. 
Therefore, the virus writer intent on preventing detection of the virus will want either a 

large or an unlimited number of forms so that the number of possible forms is too large 

for a virus scanner to search for. Simply embedding a random number or string at a fixed 

place in the executable version of a virus is not sufficient, because the signature of the 

virus is just the unvaried instructions, excluding the random part. A polymorphic virus 

has to randomly reposition all parts of itself and randomly change all fixed data. Thus, 

instead of containing the fixed (and therefore searchable) string “HA! INFECTED BY 

A VIRUS,” a polymorphic virus has to change even that pattern sometimes.
Trivially, assume a virus writer has 100 bytes of code and 50 bytes of data. To make 
two virus instances different, the writer might distribute the first version as 100 bytes 

of code followed by all 50 bytes of data. A second version could be 99 bytes of code, a 

jump instruction, 50 bytes of data, and the last byte of code. Other versions are 98 code 

bytes jumping to the last two, 97 and three, and so forth. Just by moving pieces around, 

the virus writer can create enough different appearances to fool simple virus scanners. 

Once the scanner writers became aware of these kinds of tricks, however, they refined 

their signature definitions and search techniques.
A simple variety of polymorphic virus uses encryption under various keys to make 
the stored form of the virus different. These are sometimes called 
encrypting viruses
. This type of virus must contain three distinct parts: a decryption key, the (encrypted) 

object code of the virus, and the (unencrypted) object code of the decryption routine. 
For these viruses, the decryption routine itself or a call to a decryption library routine 

must be in the clear, and so that becomes the signature. (See [PFL10d] for more on virus 

writers’ use of encryption.)
To avoid detection, not every copy of a polymorphic virus has to differ from every 
other copy. If the virus changes occasionally, not every copy will match a signature of 

every other copy.
Because you cannot always know which sources are infected, you should assume 
that any outside source is infected. Fortunately, you know when you are receiving code 

from an outside source; unfortunately, cutting off all contact with the outside world is 

not feasible. Malware seldom comes with a big warning sign and, in fact, as Sidebar 3-8 

shows, malware is often designed to fool the unsuspecting.
SIDEBAR 3-8 Malware Non-Detector
In May 2010, the United States issued indictments against three men charged 
with deceiving people into believing their computers had been infected with 

malicious code [FBI10]. The three men set up computer sites that would first 

report false and misleading computer error messages and then indicate that 

the users’ computers were infected with various forms of malware.
According to the indictment, after the false error messages were 
transmitted, the sites then induced Internet users to purchase software 

products bearing such names as “DriveCleaner” and “ErrorSafe,” ranging 
