 Section 13.2  Economics 
821  13.2 ECONOMICS
Security professionals must make a variety of security decisions about the computers, 
systems, or networks they design, build, use, and maintain. In this section, we focus on 

decisions involved in allocating scarce financial resources to cybersecurity. That is, you 

must decide what kinds of security controls to invest in, based on need, cost, and the 

trade-offs with other investments (that may not be security related). 
For example, the chief executive officer may announce that because the company has 
done well, there is a sum of money to invest for the benefit of the company. She solicits 

proposals that describe not only the way in which the money can be used but also the 

likely benefits to be received (and by whom) as a result. You prepare a proposal that 

suggests installation of a firewall, a spam filter, an encryption scheme to create a virtual 

private network, and the use of secure authentication tokens for remote network access. 

You describe the threats addressed by these products and the degree (in terms of cost 

and company profit) to which the proposed actions will benefit the company. The CEO 

compares your proposal with other possible investments: buying a subsidiary to enable 

the company to provide a new product or service, acquiring new office space that will 

include a larger library and more computer labs, or simply holding the money for a few 

years to generate a return that will profit the company. The choices, and the trade-offs 

among them, can be analyzed by understanding the economics of cybersecurity. But this 

understanding is easier said than done.To see why, we begin by describing what we mean by a business case: the framework 
for presenting information about why we think a particular security investment is needed. 

Then we examine the elements needed in the business case: data and relationships that 

show that there is a problem and that the proposed solution will be good for the com-

pany. Presenting the business case involves not just economics but also the need for con-

sistent terminology, measurement, and a context in which to make informed decisions. 

The business case is informed by 

our understanding of technology but 

must be framed in business language 

and concepts so that it can be easily 
compared with nonsecurity choices. To make a convincing business case for security investment, we need data on the 
risks and costs of security incidents. Unfortunately, as our discussion shows, reliable 

data are hard to find, so we outline the kind of data collection that would help security 

professionals. Once we have good data, we can build models and make projections. Building and 
using a model involves understanding key factors and relationships; we discuss exam-

ples of each. Finally, we explore the possibilities for future research in this rich, inter-

disciplinary area.Making a Business CaseThere are many reasons why companies look carefully at their investments in cyber-

security. Table 13-1 shows the results of a series of in-depth interviews with organiza-

tions in the U.S. manufacturing industry, healthcare companies, universities, Internet 
Business case: Compelling justification 
for taking some action.