 Section 7.3  Reliability and Integrity 
515  3. The stockroom charges accounting’s supplies budget (also in the database) for 
50 boxes of paper clips.
4. The stockroom checks its remaining quantity on hand (57) to determine whether the remaining quantity is below the reorder point. Because it is, a notice to 

order more paper clips is generated, and the item is flagged as “on order” in the 
database.5. A delivery order is prepared, enabling 50 boxes of paper clips to be sent to 
accounting.All five of these steps must be completed in the order listed for the database to be accu-
rate and for the transaction to be processed correctly.
Suppose a failure occurs while these steps are being processed. If the failure occurs 
before step 1 is complete, no harm ensues, because the entire transaction can be 

restarted. However, during steps 2, 3, and 4, changes are made to elements in the data-

base. If a failure occurs then, the values in the database are inconsistent. Worse, the 

transaction cannot be reprocessed because a requisition would be deducted twice or a 

department would be charged twice or two delivery orders would be prepared.
When a two-phase commit is used, 
shadow values 
are maintained for key data 
points. A shadow data value is computed and stored locally during the intent phase, 

and it is copied to the actual database during the commit phase. The operations on the 

database would be performed as follows for a two-phase commit.
Intent:1. Check the value of COMMIT-FLAG in the database. If it is set, this phase can-
not be performed. Halt or loop, checking COMMIT-FLAG until it is not set.
2. Compare number of boxes of paper clips on hand to number requisitioned; if 
more are requisitioned than are on hand, halt.3. Compute TCLIPS  ONHAND  REQUISITION.
4. Obtain BUDGET, the current supplies budget remaining for accounting depart-
ment. Compute TBUDGET 
 BUDGET 
 COST, where COST is the cost of 
50 boxes of clips.
5. Check whether TCLIPS is below reorder point; if so, set TREORDER 
 TRUE; 
else set TREORDER 
 FALSE.
Commit:1. Set COMMIT-FLAG in database.
2. Copy TCLIPS to CLIPS in database.
3. Copy TBUDGET to BUDGET in database.
4. Copy TREORDER to REORDER in database.
5. Prepare notice to deliver paper clips to accounting department. Indicate transac-
tion completed in log.6. Unset COMMIT-FLAG.
With this example, each step of the intent phase depends only on unmodified values 
from the database and the previous results of the intent phase. Each variable beginning 
