 Section 6.7  Firewalls 
463  are unaware of the cryptography and 
management is assured of the confi-

dentiality protection.Guard
A guard is a sophisticated firewall. Like a proxy firewall, it receives protocol data units, 
interprets them, and emits the same or different protocol data units that achieve either the 

same result or a modified result. The guard determines what services to perform on the 

user’s behalf in accordance with its available information, such as whatever it can reliably 

ascertain of the (outside) user’s identity, previous interactions, and so forth. The degree of 

control a guard can provide is limited only by what is computable. But guards and proxy 

firewalls are similar enough that the distinction between them is sometimes fuzzy. That is, 

we can add functionality to a proxy firewall until it starts to look a lot like a guard.
Guard activities can be quite detailed, as illustrated in the following examples:
• A university wants to allow its students to use email up to a limit of so many 
messages or so many characters of email in the last so many days. Although this 

result could be achieved by modifying email handlers, it is more easily done by 

monitoring the common point through which all email flows, the mail transfer 

protocol.• A school wants its students to be able to access the World Wide Web but, 
because of the capacity of its connection to the web, it will allow only so many 

bytes per second (that is, allowing text mode and simple graphics but disallow-

ing complex graphics, video, music, or the like).
• A library wants to make available certain documents but, to support fair use of 
copyrighted matter, it will allow a user to retrieve only the first so many charac-

ters of a document. After that amount, the library will require the user to pay a 

fee that will be forwarded to the author.
• A company is developing a new product based on petroleum and helium gas, 
code-named “light oil.” In any outbound data flows, as file transfers, email, web 

pages, or other data stream, it will replace the words “petroleum,” “helium,” or 

“light oil” with “magic.” A firewall is thought of primarily as an inbound filter: 

letting in only appropriate traffic (that which conforms to the firewall’s security 

policy). This example shows that a firewall or guard can just as easily screen 

outbound traffic.
• A company wants to allow its employees to fetch files by FTP. However, to 
prevent introduction of viruses, it will first pass all incoming files through a 

virus scanner. Even though 

many of these files will be 

nonexecutable text or graph-

ics, the company adminis-

trator thinks that the expense 

of scanning them (which 

file shall pass) will be 

negligible.
A circuit-level gateway connects two 

separate subnetworks as if they were 

one contiguous unit.A guard can implement any 

programmable set of conditions, even if 

the program conditions become highly 

sophisticated.