 Section 2.1  Authentication 
43  Dictionary AttacksSeveral network sites post dictionaries of phrases, science fiction character names, 

places, mythological names, Chinese words, Yiddish words, and other specialized lists. 

These lists help site administrators identify users who have chosen weak passwords, 

but the same dictionaries can also be used by attackers of sites that do not have such 

attentive administrators. The COPS [FAR90], Crack [MUF92], and SATAN [FAR95] 

utilities allow an administrator to scan a system for weak passwords. But these same 

utilities, or other homemade ones, allow attackers to do the same. Now Internet sites 

offer so-called password recovery software as freeware or shareware for under $20. 

(These are password-cracking programs.)
People think they can be clever by picking a simple password and replacing certain 
characters, such as 0 (zero) for letter O, 1 (one) for letter I or L, 3 (three) for letter E or @ 

(at) for letter A. But users aren’t the only people who could think up these substitutions. 
Inferring Passwords Likely for a UserIf Sandy is selecting a password, she is probably not choosing a word completely at 

random. Most likely Sandy’s password is something meaningful to her. People typically 

choose personal passwords, such as the name of a spouse, child, other family member, 

or pet. For any given person, the number of such possibilities is only a dozen or two. 

Trying this many passwords by computer takes well under a second! Even a person 

working by hand could try ten likely candidates in a minute or two.
Thus, what seemed formidable in theory is in fact quite vulnerable in practice, and 
the likelihood of successful penetration is frighteningly high. Morris and Thompson 

[MOR79] confirmed our fears in their report on the results of having gathered pass-

words from many users, shown in Table 2-1. Figure 2-1 (based on data from that study) 

shows the characteristics of the 3,289 passwords gathered. The results from that study 

are distressing, and the situation today is likely to be the same. Of those passwords, 

86 percent could be uncovered in about one week’s worth of 24-hour-a-day testing, 
using the very generous estimate of 1 millisecond per password check.
TABLE 2-1 
Password Characteristics
NumberPercentageStructure
151%Single ASCII character
722%Two ASCII characters
46414%Three ASCII characters

47714%Four alphabetic letters

70621%Five alphabetic letters, all the same case

60518%Six lowercase alphabetic letters

49215%Words in dictionaries or lists of names
283186%Total of all categories above
