 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
167  2005, combined into a ready-to-run package. A kind of “click and run” application, the 
$2000 kit has been around in different versions since 2009. Each kit sold is preconfig-

ured for use against only one web site address (although customers can buy additional 

addresses), so the attacker who bought the kit intended to dispatch the attack specifi-

cally through the Treasury web site, perhaps because of its high credibility with users.
As malicious code attacks go, this one was not the most sophisticated, complicated, 
or devastating, but it illustrates several important features we explore as we analyze 

malicious code, the topic of this chapter. We also describe some other malicious code 

attacks that have had a far more serious impact.
Malicious code comes in many forms under many names. In this chapter we explore 
three of the most popular forms: viruses, Trojan horses, and worms. The distinctions 

among them are small, and we do not need to classify any piece of code precisely. More 

important is to learn about the nature of attacks from these three: how they can spread, 

what harm they can cause, and how they can be controlled. We can then apply this 

knowledge to other types of malicious code, including code forms that do not yet have 

popular names.Malware—Viruses, Trojan Horses, and Worms
Malicious code or 
rogue programs 
or malware 
(short for MALicious softWARE) is 
the general name for programs or program parts planted by an agent with malicious 

intent to cause unanticipated or undesired effects. The agent is the program’s writer or 

distributor. Malicious intent distinguishes this type of code from unintentional errors, 

even though both kinds can certainly have similar and serious negative effects. This 

definition also excludes coincidence, in which minor flaws in two benign programs 

combine for a negative effect. Most faults found in software inspections, reviews, and 

testing do not qualify as malicious 

code; their cause is usually unin-

tentional. However, unintentional 

faults can in fact invoke the same 

responses as intentional malevo-

lence; a benign cause can still lead 

to a disastrous effect.
You may have been affected by malware at one time or another, either because your 
computer was infected or because you could not access an infected system while its 

administrators were cleaning up the mess caused by the infection. The malware may 

have been caused by a worm or a virus or neither; the infection metaphor often seems 

apt, but the terminology of malicious code is sometimes used imprecisely. Here we 

distinguish names applied to certain types of malware, but you should focus on methods 

and impacts, instead of names. That which we call a virus by any other name would 

smell as vile.A virus is a program that can replicate itself and pass on malicious code to other 
nonmalicious programs by modifying them. The term “virus” was coined because 

the affected program acts like a biological virus: It infects other healthy subjects by 

attaching itself to the program and either destroying the program or coexisting with it. 
Malicious code can be directed at a 

specific user or class of users, or it can 
be for anyone.