 Section 11.2  Information and the Law 
719  • Reproduction of the newspaper that way is unfair.
• The quality of the copy is usually degraded in the copying process. 
Unless the copy is truly equivalent to the original, many people would prefer to buy 
an authentic issue from the news agent, with clear type, quality photos, accurate color, 

and so forth.The cost of information similarly depends on fixed costs plus costs to reproduce. Typi-
cally, the fixed costs are large whereas the cost to reproduce is extremely small, even less 

than for a newspaper because there is no cost for the raw materials of paper and ink. How-

ever, unlike a newspaper, information is far more feasible for a buyer to resell. A copy 

of digital information can be perfect, 

indistinguishable from the original, 
the same being true for copies of 

copies of copies of copies.The Value of Information Is Often Time Dependent
If you knew for certain what the trading price of a share of Microsoft stock would be 
next week, that information would be extremely valuable because you could make an 

enormous profit on the stock market. Of course, that price cannot be known today. But 

suppose you knew that Microsoft was certain to announce something next week that 

would cause the price to rise or fall. That information would be almost as valuable as 

knowing the exact price, and it could be known in advance. However, knowing 
yester-
day’s
 price for Microsoft stock or knowing that 
yesterday
 Microsoft announced some-
thing that caused the stock price to plummet is almost worthless because it is printed in 

every major financial newspaper. Thus, the value of information may depend on when 

you know it.
Information Is Often Transferred Intangibly
A newspaper is a printed artifact. The news agent hands it to a customer, who walks 
away with it. Both the seller and the buyer realize and acknowledge that something has 

been acquired. Furthermore, a seriously damaged newspaper is readily apparent; if a 

serious production flaw appears in the middle, the defect is easy to point out.
Suppose, for example, an evil spy covertly obtained all copies of the 
New York Times
 for a particular day and replaced a leading story negative to the spy’s homeland with a 

glowingly positive one. When we think of a paper newspaper, the difficulty of reprinting 

and replacing page 1 and perhaps other continuation pages is prohibitive.
But times are changing. Increasingly, information is being delivered as bits across 
a network instead of being printed on paper. If the bits are visibly flawed (that is, if an 

error detecting code indicates a transmission error), demonstrating that flaw is easy. 

However, if the copy of the information is accurate but the underlying information is 

incorrect, useless, or not as expected, it is difficult to justify a claim that the informa-

tion is flawed. So a subscriber to the digital 
New York Times
 might never notice that a 
spy had dramatically changed the content of one issue, or even of a month’s or a year’s 

worth of issues. We all have access to numerous news sources, of course, so we can 
The marginal cost of information is 
often minuscule.