 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
681  the human guard can handle exceptional situations (for example, when a legitimate user 
loses a key), but the lock prevents access if the guard is distracted. Also, one control 

may cover multiple vulnerabilities, so encrypting a set of data may protect both confi-

dentiality and integrity.
Controls have positive and negative effects: Encryption, for example, protects con-
fidentiality, but it also takes time and introduces key management issues. Thus, when 

selecting controls, you have to consider the full impact.
Controls are not perfect. They can fail: Guards can be bribed or fall asleep, encryp-
tion can be broken, and access control devices can malfunction. Some controls are 

stronger than others. For example, a physical device is generally stronger than a written 

policy (policies are nevertheless useful). 
Which Controls Are Best?Typically there is no single best set of controls. One control is stronger, another is more 

usable, another prevents harm instead of detecting it afterwards, and still another pro-

tects against several types of vulnerabilities.
As you have inferred, risk analysis involves building a multidimensional array: 
assets, vulnerabilities, likelihoods, controls. Mapping controls to vulnerabilities may 

involve using graph theory to select a minimal set of controls that address all vulner-

abilities. The advantage of careful, systematic documentation of all these data is that 

each choice can be analyzed, and the side effects of changes are apparent.
If this process sounds difficult, it is, but it need not be overwhelming. Listing all 
assets is less important than listing the top few, probably five to ten. Postulating all vul-

nerabilities is less important than recognizing several classes of harm and representative 

causes. With a manageable number of assets and vulnerabilities, determining controls 

(some of which may already be in place) need not be extensive, as long as some control 

covers each major vulnerability.
Step 6: Project Costs and Savings
By this point in our risk analysis, we have identified controls that address each vulner-
ability in our list. The next step is to determine whether the costs outweigh the benefits 

of preventing or mitigating the risks. Recall that we multiply the risk probability by the 

risk impact to determine the risk exposure. The risk impact is the loss that we might 

experience if the risk were to turn into a real problem. There are techniques to help us 

determine the risk exposure. 
The effective cost of a given control is the actual cost of the control (such as pur-
chase price, installation costs, and training costs) minus any expected loss from using 

the control (such as administrative or maintenance costs). Thus, the true cost of a con-

trol may be positive if the control is expensive to administer or introduces new risk in 

another area of the system. Or the cost can even be negative if the reduction in risk is 

greater than the cost of the control.For example, suppose a department has determined that some users have gained 
unauthorized access to the computing system. Managers fear the intruders might inter-

cept or even modify sensitive data on the system. One approach to addressing this prob-

lem is to install a more secure data access control program. Even though the cost of the 
