538 Chapter 7  
DatabasesAs we describe in Chapter 9, data about an entity (a person, company, organization, 
government body) may not be under that entity’s control. Supermarkets collect product 

data from their shoppers, either from single visits or, more usefully, across all purchases 

for a customer who uses a “customer loyalty” card. In aggregate the data show market-

ing results useful to the manufacturers, advertising agencies, health researchers, gov-

ernment food agencies, financial institutions, researchers, and others. But these results 

were collected by the supermarket that can now do anything with the results, including 

sell them to manufacturers’ competitors, for example.
Little research and consideration has been done on sensitivity of data obtained from 
data mining. Chris Clifton [CLI03, KAN04] has investigated the problem and proposed 

approaches that would produce close but not exact aggregate results that would preclude 

revealing sensitive information.
Data Correctness and Integrity
“Connecting the dots” is a phrase currently in vogue: It refers to drawing conclusions 
from relationships between discrete bits of data. But before we can connect dots, we 
need to do two other important things: collect and correct them. Data storage and com-

puter technology is making it possible to collect more dots than ever before. But if your 

name or address has ever appeared incorrectly on a mailing list, you know that not all 

collected dots are accurate.Correcting Mistakes in Data Let’s take the mailing list as an example. Your neighbor at 510 Thames Street brought 

a catalog for kitchen supplies to you at 519 Thames Street with your name but address 

510 instead of 519; clearly someone made a mistake entering your address. You contact 

the kitchen supply place, and they are pleased to change your address on their records 

because it is in their interest to make sure catalogs get to people who are interested in 

them. But they bought your name and address along with others from a mailing list, and 

they have no incentive to contact the list owner to correct your master record. So addi-

tional catalogs continue to show up with your neighbor. You can see where this story 

leads—mistaken addresses never die.
Data mining exacerbates this situation. Databases need unique keys to help with 
structure and searches. But different databases may not have shared keys, so they use 

some data field as if it were a key. In our example case, this shared data field might be 

the address, so now your neighbor’s address is associated with cooking (even if your 

neighbor needs a recipe to make tea). Fortunately, this example is of little consequence.
Consider terrorists, however. A government’s intelligence service collects data on 
suspicious activities. But the names of suspicious persons are foreign, written in a dif-

ferent alphabet. When transformed into the government’s alphabet, the transformation 

is irregular: One agent writes “Doe,” another “Do,” and another “Dho.” Trying to use 

these names as common keys is difficult at best. One approach is phonetic. You clus-

ter terms that sound similar. In this case, however, you might bring in “Jo,” “Cho,” 

“Toe,” and “Tsiao,” too, thereby implicating innocent people in the terrorist search. 

(In fact, this has happened: See Sidebar 7-6.) Assuming a human analyst could cor-

rectly separate all these and wanted to correct the Doe/Do/Doh databases, there are still 

two problems. First, the analyst might not have access to the original databases held 
