24 Chapter 1  
Introductionfrom the breach, loss of business partners due to loss of trust, and potential 
legal liabilities from the breach. Most of these costs are intangible costs that are 

difficult to calculate but extremely important in assessing the overall security 

breach costs to the organization.”
Ko and Dorantes compared two groups of companies: one set (the 
treatment group) with data breaches, and the other (the control group) with-

out a breach but matched for size and industry. Their findings were striking. 

Contrary to what you might suppose, the breached firms had no decrease 

in performance for the quarters following the breach, but their return on 

assets decreased in the third quarter. The comparison of treatment with 

control companies revealed that the control firms generally outperformed 

the breached firms. However, the breached firms outperformed the control 

firms in the fourth quarter.
These results are consonant with the results of other researchers who 
conclude that there is minimal long-term economic impact from a secu-

rity breach. There are many reasons why this is so. For example, custom-

ers may think that all competing firms have the same vulnerabilities and 

threats, so changing to another vendor does not reduce the risk. Another 

possible explanation may be a perception that a breached company has 

better security since the breach forces the company to strengthen controls 

and thus reduce the likelihood of similar breaches. Yet another explanation 

may simply be the customers’ short attention span; as time passes, cus-

tomers forget about the breach and return to business as usual.
All these studies have limitations, including small sample sizes and 
lack of sufficient data. But they clearly demonstrate the difficulties of quan-

tifying and verifying the impacts of security risks, and point out a difference 

between short- and long-term effects.
Although we should not apply protection haphazardly, we will necessarily protect 
against threats we consider most likely or most damaging. For this reason, it is essential 

to understand how we perceive threats and evaluate their likely occurrence and impact. 

Sidebar 1-4 summarizes some of the relevant research in risk perception and decision-

making. Such research suggests that, for relatively rare instances such as high-impact 

security problems, we must take into account the ways in which people focus more on 

the impact than on the actual likelihood of occurrence.
SIDEBAR 1-4 Perception of the Risk of Extreme Events
When a type of adverse event happens frequently, we can calculate its 
likelihood and impact by examining both frequency and nature of the col-

lective set of events. For instance, we can calculate the likelihood that it will SIDEBAR 1-3 Continued