 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
391  The first indications of serious WEP weaknesses were published in 2001, only two 
years after the WEP protocol’s formal acceptance. Such a brief period could be the 

result of numerous causes. Certainly the constraint on cryptographic strength in place in 
1997 limited the security options of protocol developers. Furthermore, underestimating 

the seriousness of the threat against a new and hence unused technology likely led the 

protocol designers to take an easy approach. When WEP’s shortcomings were published 
SIDEBAR 6-13 TJ Maxx Data Theft
In 2005, a crew of 11 hackers stole over 45 million credit and debit card 
numbers from the clothing stores TJ Maxx and Marshalls and their business 

partners; the criminals did so without ever setting foot inside the store.
The thieves set up an antenna outside one TJ Maxx store and inter-
cepted wireless communications among handheld scanner devices, cash 

registers, and computers on the store’s wireless network. With an antenna 

shaped like a telescope, someone with a simple laptop computer can inter-

cept a WiFi signal miles away from the access point. These thieves worked 

from the parking lot.
The network was secured with the easily compromised WEP protocol, 
even though serious security vulnerabilities in WEP had been demonstrated 
and documented years earlier.
Data obtained from wireless interception included not just transaction 
details but also more important account login IDs and passwords that let 

the crew install sniffers in the network and hack into the central database of 

the parent company that owns TJ Maxx and Marshalls.
Albert Gonzales of Miami was convicted in March 2010 of being the 
ringleader of the group that included two other U.S. citizens, three Rus-

sians, two Chinese, and one each from Estonia and Belarus. Gonzales was 

sentenced to 20 years in prison.TJ Maxx is not the only vulnerable retailer, however. In 2009, Motoro-
la’s Air Defense unit surveyed retailers in major cities throughout the world, 

including Atlanta, Boston, New York City, Paris, Seoul, and Sydney. Accord-

ing to their press release of 28 January 2009, they found that 44 percent of 

retailers’ wireless networks and devices could be compromised. Wireless 

networks in stores did not employ encryption 32 percent of the time, and 25 

percent of the networks used the weak WEP security technology.
Notice from these cities and the nationalities of the Gonzales group 
that computer security is an international problem. The targets are indeed 

widespread, and the abundance of vulnerable networks draws capable 

attackers from many backgrounds.
Unfortunately, some retailers start using wireless technology only to 
communicate low-sensitivity information, such as inventory data. However, 

when they expand their networking applications and begin to communicate 
more sensitive data, they forget about or overlook the exposure of using 

weak security. For this reason, security must be reviewed any time there is 

a change to a system’s use, architecture, or implementation.
