 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
601  purchased in a given order, obtains the purchaser’s name and address, and determines 
shipping and payment details. This software runs as an application within other well-

known retail merchants’ websites; it is the subsystem that handles order processing. 

Some of these other retailers had privacy statements on their websites saying, in effect, 

that they would not sell or distribute customers’ data. Nevertheless, CartManager did 

sell the data it collected with its subsystem. The FTC prosecuted CartManager, settling 

in 2005. The agency held that the merchants’ relationship to CartManager was invisible 

to users, and so the policy from the online merchants applied also to CartManager.
In another case, Annie Antón and her colleagues [ANT04] analyzed the privacy pol-
icy posted on Jet Blue airlines’ website and found it misleading. Jet Blue stated that it 

would not disclose passenger data to third parties. “In response to a special request from 

the Department of Defense,” Jet Blue released passenger data to Torch Concepts, which 

in turn passed it to the Defense Department to use in testing passenger-screening algo-

rithms for airline security. The data in question involved credit card information, clearly 

collected by Jet Blue only to process charges for airline tickets. 
The analysis by Antón is interesting for two reasons: First, Jet Blue violated its own 
policy. Second, the Defense Department may have circumvented the e-Government Act 

by acquiring from a private company data it would not have been able to collect directly 

as a government entity. The original purpose for Jet Blue’s data collection derived from 

its business and accounting activities. Using those same records to screen for terrorists 

was outside the scope of the original data collection. 
Commercial sites have no standard of content comparable to the FTC recommenda-
tion from the e-Government Act. Some companies display clear and detailed privacy 

statements that they must obey. Meanwhile, other companies provide no privacy state-

ment at all, giving them great flexibility: It is impossible to mislead when a privacy 

policy says nothing. For a different approach to defining online privacy, see Sidebar 9-3.
SIDEBAR 9-3 Privacy in Context
Many of the ways we think about and provide privacy, especially online, 
don’t work as well as we would like them to. Helen Nissenbaum [NIS11] 

suggests an alternative approach to privacy online: privacy as a form of 

“contextual integrity.” Her approach considers the “formative ideals of the 

Internet as a public good.” Let’s investigate what those phrases mean.
Nissenbaum notes that a privacy model based on choices may leave out important considerations. “While it may seem that individuals freely 

choose to pay the informational price, the price of not engaging socially, 

commercially, and financially may in fact be exacting enough to call into 

question how freely these choices are made.” She says that “the consent 

model for respecting privacy online is plagued by deeper problems than 

the practical ones.” In particular, consider that “achieving transparency 

means conveying information-handling practices in ways that are relevant 

and meaningful” to an individual’s choices. But if notice means conveying 

the fine details of “every flow, condition, qualification, and exception, we 

know that it is unlikely to be understood, let alone read.” A shortened version 
(continues)