 Section 7.5  Data Mining and Big Data 
535  that given the distribution of data after perturbation and given the distribution of added 
errors, a researcher can determine the distribution (
not the values) of the underlying data. 
The underlying distribution is often what researchers want. This result demonstrates that 

data perturbation can help protect privacy without sacrificing the accuracy of results.
Swapping Correlation involves joining databases on common fields. Thus, the ID number in the 

AOL queries of Sidebar 7-4 lets researchers combine queries to derive one user’s name 

and hometown. That act of joining or linking permits researchers to draw conclusions 

by inference.To counter this kind of linking, some database administrators randomly perturb the 
data. The sex for Bailey and Chin might be interchanged, as might the race of Dewitt 

and Earhart. The count of individuals with these values would still be correct. Total aid 

for all males would be off by a bit. In this tiny example, these changes could affect the 

results significantly. However, if we had a larger database and performed just a few 

interchanges, most statistics would be close, probably close enough for most analytic 

purposes. Researchers could be warned that to protect confidentiality some exact data 

might be compromised. A researcher might conclude that Adams was receiving 5000 in 

aid, but could not be sure that conclusion was accurate because of the data swapping.
Thus, swapping, like perturbation, might be a reasonable compromise between data 
accuracy and disclosure. We examine this subject as a privacy consideration  in more 

detail in Chapter 9.Query AnalysisA more complex form of security uses query analysis. Here, a query and its implications 
are analyzed to determine whether a result should be provided. As noted earlier, query anal-

ysis can be quite difficult. One approach involves maintaining a query history for each user 

and judging a query in the context of what inferences are possible, given previous results.
We have presented some of the techniques by which a database management sys-
tem balances use and access control. In other areas, such as operating systems, access 
control is binary: Access is either granted to or denied to an object. However, database 

management systems try to take a more nuanced approach; a strict yes/no approach 

would lead either to extreme limitation of access (if there is one sensitive record out of 

a million, access to the entire database could be blocked) or extreme laxness of access 

(access is allowed in spite of the potential for inference or aggregation). Thus, database 

management systems and their administrators try to find a reasonable middle ground.
Next we turn to use of databases in what are called data mining and big data.
7.5 DATA MINING AND BIG DATA
In this final section we consider two related topics. The first, data mining, involves 

people and programs that search and sift datasets to derive data. Yes, you counter, that 

is what databases are for and what we have considered throughout the rest of this chap-

ter. Data mining, however, implies searching for patterns and connections that were 
