630 Chapter 9  
Privacypreferences, description, and history, which the browser or an added program gathers 
by monitoring the user’s computing use and reporting the information to a home base.
Adware is usually installed as part of another piece of software without notice. Bur-
ied in the lengthy user’s license of the other software is reference to “software X and 

its extension,” so the user arguably gives permission for the installation of the adware. 

File-sharing software is a common target of adware, but so too are download managers 

that retrieve large files in several streams at once for faster downloads. And products 

purporting to be security tools, such as antivirus agents, have been known to harbor 

adware.
Writers of adware software are paid to get their clients’ ads in front of users, which 
they do with pop-up windows, ads that cover a legitimate ad, or ads that occupy the 

entire screen surface. More subtly, adware can reorder search engine results so that cli-

ents’ products get higher placement or replace others’ products entirely.
Zango was a company that generated pop-up ads in response to sites visited. It dis-
tributed software to be installed on a user’s computer to generate the pop-ups and collect 

data to inform Zango about which ads to display. In 2006, the Center for Democracy 

and Technology filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission about Zango, 

which eventually charged that Zango violated the Federal Trade Commission Act by
• deceptively failing to disclose adware
• unfairly installing adware 

• unfairly preventing uninstall
 For many years afterwards, security researchers such as Harvard’s Ben Edelman 
continued to claim that Zango misbehaved: “Zango continues numerous practices likely 

to confuse, deceive, or otherwise harm typical users as well as practices specifically 

contrary to Zango’s obligations under its November 2006 settlement with the FTC.” 

Many security tool vendors produced products aimed at uninstalling Zango. Zango’s 

founders declared bankruptcy and closed the company in 2009.
Shopping on the Internet
Web merchants claim to offer the best prices for a product or service because many 

merchants compete for your business, right? Not necessarily so. And spyware is partly 

to blame.Consider two cases: You own a brick-and-mortar store selling hardware. One of your 
customers, Viva, is extremely faithful: She has shopped at your store for years; she 

wouldn’t think of going anywhere else. Viva is also quite well off; she regularly buys 

expensive items and tends to buy quickly. Joan is a new customer. You presume she has 

been to other hardware stores but so far she hasn’t bought much from you. Joan is strug-

gling with a large family, large mortgage, and small savings. Both women visit your 

store on the same day to buy a hammer, which you normally sell for $20. What price do 

you offer each? Many people say you should give Viva a good price because of her loy-

alty. Others say her loyalty gives you room to make some profit. And she can certainly 

afford it. As for Joan, is she likely to become a steady customer? If she has been to other 

places, does she shop by price for everything? If you win her business with good prices, 
