 Section 11.5  Computer Crime 
739  U.S. Electronic Communications Privacy Act
This law, enacted in 1986, protects against electronic wiretapping. There are some 
important qualifications. First, law enforcement agencies are always allowed to obtain a 

court order to access communications or records of them. And an amendment to the act 

requires Internet service providers to install equipment as needed to permit these court-

ordered wiretaps. Second, the act allows Internet service providers to read the content 

of communications in order to maintain service or to protect the provider itself from 

damage. So, for example, a provider could monitor traffic for viruses.
Gramm–Leach–Bliley ActThe U.S. Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (Public Law 106-102) of 1999 covers privacy of 
data for customers of financial institutions. Each institution must have a privacy pol-

icy of which it informs its customers, and customers must be given the opportunity 

to reject any use of the data beyond the necessary business uses for which the private 

data were collected. The act and its implementation regulations also require financial 

institutions to undergo a detailed security-risk assessment. Based on the results of that 

assessment, the institution must adopt a comprehensive “information security program” 

designed to protect against unauthorized access to or use of customers’ nonpublic per-

sonal information.HIPAA
In 1996, Public Law 104-191, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
(HIPAA) was passed in the United States. Although the first part of the law concerned 

the rights of workers to maintain health insurance coverage after their employment was 

terminated, the second part of the law required protection of the privacy of individu-

als’ medical records. HIPAA and its associated implementation standards mandate pro-

tection of “individually identifiable healthcare information,” that is, medical data that 

can be associated with an identifiable individual. To protect the privacy of individuals’ 

healthcare data, healthcare providers must perform standard security practices, such as 

the following:
• Enforce need to know.
• Ensure minimum necessary disclosure.

• Designate a privacy officer.

• Document information security practices.

• Track disclosures of information.

• Develop a method for patients’ inspection and copying of their information.

• Train staff at least every three years.
Perhaps most far-reaching is the requirement for healthcare organizations to develop 
“business associate contracts,” which are coordinated agreements on how data shared 

among entities will be protected. This requirement could affect the sharing and trans-

mittal of patient information among doctors, clinics, laboratories, hospitals, insurers, 
and any other organizations that handle such data.
