350 Chapter 6  
Networksadded in headers and trailers. Finally, the data are ready to travel on a physical medium, 
such as a cable or through the air on a microwave or satellite link.
On the receiving end, the data enter the bottom of the model and progress up through 
the layers where control information is examined and removed, and the data are refor-

matted. Finally, the data arrive at an application at the top layer of the model for the 

receiver. This communication is shown in Figure 6-4.
Interception can occur at any level of this model: For example, the application 
can covertly leak data, as we presented in Chapter 3, the physical media can be wire-

tapped, as we described in this chapter, or a session between two subnetworks can be 

compromised.Background: Addressing and Routing
If data are to go from point A to B, there must be some path between these two points. 

One way, obviously, is a direct connection wire. And for frequent, high-volume trans-

fers between two known points, a dedicated link is indeed used. A company with two 

offices on opposite sides of town might procure its own private connection. This private 

connection becomes a single point of failure, however, because if that line fails for any 

reason the two offices lose connectivity, and a solid connection was the whole reason 

for the private line.
Obviously, direct connections work only for a small number of parties. It would be 
infeasible for every Internet user to have a dedicated wire to every other user. For rea-

sons of reliability and size, the Internet and most other networks resemble a mesh, with 

data being boosted along paths from source to destination.Protocols
When we use a network, the communications media are usually transparent to us. That 
is, most of us do not know whether our communication is carried over copper wire, 

optical fiber, satellite, microwave, or some combination. In fact, the communications 

medium may change from one transmission to the next. This ambiguity is actually a 

positive feature of a network: its 
independence. That is, the communication is separated 
7–Application
6–Presentation

5–Session

4–Transport

3–Network

2–Data Link

1–Physical
7–Application
6–Presentation

5–Session

4–Transport

3–Network

2–Data Link

1–Physical
FIGURE 6-4 OSI Model