392 Chapter 6  
Networksin 2001, it became clear that WEP was not an adequate protocol for WiFi. (Alas, as 
described in Sidebar 6-14, even experts fail to practice strong security.)
For these reasons, in 2001 the IEEE began design of a new authentication and 
encryption scheme for wireless, as we explain in the next section.
The alternative to WEP is 
WiFi Protected Access
 or 
WPA
, designed in 2003. The 
IEEE standard 802.11i, known as WPA2, was approved in 2004, and is an extension of 

WPA. Although the name WPA2 is correct, the standard is informally known as WPA.
1 How does WPA improve upon WEP?
Strengths of WPA over WEP
WPA set out to overcome the then known shortcomings in WEP, and thus many features 
of WPA directly address WEP weaknesses. Following are some of the ways in which 

WPA is superior to WEP.
Non-Static Encryption Key First, WEP uses an encryption key that is unchanged until the user enters a new key at 

the client and the access point. Cryptologists deplore static encryption keys because a 

fixed key gives the attacker a large amount of ciphertext to try to analyze and plenty 

of time in which to analyze it. WPA has a key change approach, called 
Temporal Key 
1. Strictly speaking, there is a difference between these: WPA was the original replacement for WEP; WPA2 
goes beyond WPA by requiring support for the strong AES encryption algorithm. Furthermore, to use the 

trademarked “WiFi Certified” designation, a device must be certified by the WiFi alliance. In practice, all 

WiFi devices sold now meet the WPA2 standard. In this book we follow common usage and use WPA to 

refer to both the WPA and WPA2 protocols.
SIDEBAR 6-14 Do As I Say, Not As I Do
You would expect a conference of computer security professionals to follow 
best security practices. No, that is only what they counsel, not what they do.At the 2010 RSA Security Conference, which attracts many computer 
security practitioners and industry leaders, Motorola’s Air Defense divi-

sion scanned the wireless waves to see who was connected to what. They 

observed over 2,000 connections. They found [WIL10] that 116 clients had 
connected point-to-point to such risky SSIDs as “Free Public WiFi” and 

“Free Internet Access.” A point-to-point connection (called ad hoc) is to 

another computer, not necessarily to an access point and server.
Worse, 62 percent of the networks located were running the WEP pro-
tocol or the stronger but still flawed TKIP protocol, nearly ten years after 

WEP’s lack of security had been demonstrated convincingly, and almost 

five years after a vulnerability (described later in this chapter) in TKIP was 
publicized.Motorola did not track down the devices employing weak security, so 
no one knows how many were users’ machines as opposed to demonstra-

tion machines in the exhibition hall. Still, one wonders what these statistics 
say of the general public’s use of best security practices.
