258 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
• superimpose a benign image underneath the malicious image (remember, the 
malicious image is transparent) with what looks like a button directly under the 

real (but invisible) button for the action the attacker wants (such as, “Yes” install 

the program)• induce the victim to click what seems to be a button on the benign image
The two technical tasks, changing the color to transparent and moving the page, are 
both possible because of a technique called framing, or using an iframe. An iframe is 
a structure that can contain all or part of a page, can be placed and moved anywhere on 

another page, and can be layered on top of or underneath other frames. Although impor-

tant for managing complex images and content, such as a box with scrolling to enter a 

long response on a feedback page, frames also facilitate clickjacking.
But, as we show in the next attack discussion, the attacker can obtain or change a 
user’s data without creating complex web images.
Drive-By DownloadSimilar to the clickjacking attack, a drive-by download
 is an attack in which code is 
downloaded, installed, and executed on a computer without the user’s permission and 

usually without the user’s knowledge. In one example of a drive-by download, in April 

2011, a web page from the U.S. Postal Service was compromised with the Blackhole 

commercial malicious-exploit kit. Clicking a link on the postal service web site redi-

rected the user to a web site in Russia, which presented what looked like a familiar 

“Error 404—Page Not Found” mes-

sage, but instead the Russian site 

installed malicious code carefully 

matched to the user’s browser and 

operating system type (eWeek
, 10 
April 2011).Eric Howes [HOW04] describes an attack in which he visited a site that ostensibly 
helps people identify lyrics to songs. Suspecting a drive-by download, Howes conducted 

an experiment in which he used a computer for which he had a catalog of installed soft-

ware, so he could determine what had been installed after visiting the web site.
On his entry, the site displayed a pop-up screen asking for permission to install the 
program “software plugin” from “Software Plugin, Ltd.” The pop-up was generated by 

a hidden frame loaded from the site’s main page, seeking to run the script download-

mp3.exe, a name that seems appropriate for a site handling music. When he agreed to 

the download, Howes found eight distinct programs (and their support code and data) 

downloaded to his machine.
Among the changes he detected were• eight new programs from at least four different companies
• nine new directories

• three new browser toolbars (including the interesting toolbar shown in 
Figure 4-14)• numerous new desktop icons
Drive-by download: downloading and installing code other than what a user 
expects