548 Chapter 7  
DatabasesSecurity Additions for Big Data ApplicationsAs described in other chapters, adding security to an existing product or system is sel-
dom a successful strategy. Nevertheless, sometimes that is the only available approach; 

not only is the specification and design complete, but one or more versions of the prod-

uct are in use. Such is the case with Hadoop and other proprietary big data application 
frameworks: Product design and implementation were complete before security was 

considered seriously. Security engineers have now recommended changes and additions 

to Hadoop to support well-known security tools and techniques.
Hadoop secure mode is described on the Hadoop website https://hadoop.apache.org/
docs/current/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-common/SecureMode.html and in a white 

paper [OMA09] from the Yahoo! Team, headed by Owen O’Malley. These proposals for 

security functions suggested security features to be included in the Hadoop framework. 

The white paper identified two security holes to address: lack of user authentication 

(and identification) and lack of access control to data blocks. To address these errors, 

the team proposed a secure mode that involves the following extensions to Hadoop:
• authentication for end-user web devices
• mutual (user–process–Hadoop service) authentication with Kerberos

• access control to files in the Hadoop file system

• delegation tokens for continuous authentication between internal clients and 
services• job tokens for distributing access authorization to multiple distributed platforms 
that collectively implement a data search across disparate data stores
• SSL encryption for network traffic
A driving force in this design was performance: The developers decided that security 
functions could not reduce performance by more than 3 percent. In 2008, the Yahoo! devel-

opers’ network reported that a Hadoop cluster had successfully sorted a terabyte of data 

in 209 seconds. Notice that to protect 

data the O’Malley team was unwill-

ing to slow that result by less time 

than it takes you to read this sentence. 

(The 209 seconds beat the previous 

record of 297 seconds, a reduction of 

over 26 percent.)
Andrew Becherer presented a paper [BEC10] at BlackHat 2010 noting some of the 
shortcomings of the Hadoop security extension of 2009. He criticizes the default level 

of protection, measured by the strength of cryptography employed by default for those 

users who choose to use the security enhancements. Furthermore, he points out that the 
design involves distributing the same key to potentially hundreds or thousands of serv-

ers at distributed locations. The large number of copies of the same key increases the 

risk that one copy of the key might fall into an attacker’s hands. The security model also 

authenticates certain processes based on the IP address on which they (appear to be) 

hosted. As explained in Chapter 6, IP addresses can be spoofed, and that vulnerability 

cannot be discounted when a Hadoop system is hosted on the Internet.Performance tends to outweigh accuracy 
or security for data-mining applications.