 Section 1.2  Threats 
9  things you would ordinarily consider confidential, but they can reveal something that 
someone wants to be kept confidential. 
The definition of confidentiality is straightforward: Only authorized people or sys-
tems can access protected data. However, as we see in later chapters, ensuring con-

fidentiality can be difficult. For example, who determines which people or systems 

are authorized to access the current system? By “accessing” data, do we mean that an 
authorized party can access a single bit? the whole collection? pieces of data out of con-

text? Can someone who is authorized disclose data to other parties? Sometimes there is 

even a question of who owns the data: If you visit a web page, do you own the fact that 

you clicked on a link, or does the web page owner, the Internet provider, someone else, 

or all of you? In spite of these complicating examples, confidentiality is the security property we 
understand best because its meaning is narrower than that of the other two. We also 

understand confidentiality well because we can relate computing examples to those of 

preserving confidentiality in the real world.
Confidentiality relates most obviously to data, although we can think of the con-
fidentiality of a piece of hardware (a novel invention) or a person (the whereabouts 

of a wanted criminal). Here are some properties that could mean a failure of data 

confidentiality:
• An unauthorized person accesses a data item.
• An unauthorized process or program accesses a data item.

• A person authorized to access certain data accesses other data not authorized 
(which is a specialized version of “an unauthorized person accesses a data item”).
• An unauthorized person accesses an approximate data value (for example, not 
knowing someone’s exact salary but knowing that the salary falls in a particular 

range or exceeds a particular amount).
• An unauthorized person learns the existence of a piece of data (for example, 
knowing that a company is developing a certain new product or that talks are 

underway about the merger of two companies).
Notice the general pattern of these statements: A person, process, or program is (or 
is not) authorized to access a data item in a particular way. We call the person, process, 

or program a subject, the data item an object, the kind of access (such as read, write, or execute) an 
access mode, and the authorization a policy, as shown in Figure 1-6. 
These four terms reappear throughout this book because they are fundamental aspects 

of computer security.
One word that captures most aspects of confidentiality is 
view
, although you should not take that term literally. A failure of confidentiality does not necessarily mean that 

someone sees an object and, in fact, it is virtually impossible to look at bits in any mean-

ingful way (although you may look at their representation as characters or pictures). 

The word view does connote another aspect of confidentiality in computer security, 

through the association with viewing a movie or a painting in a museum: look but do 

not touch. In computer security, confidentiality usually means obtaining but not modify-

ing. Modification is the subject of integrity, which we consider in the next section.
