 Section 9.1  Privacy Concepts 
589  Affected Subject
Individuals, groups, companies, organizations, and governments all have data they con-
sider sensitive. We use terms such as “subject” and “owner” to distinguish between the 

person or entity being described by data and the person or entity that holds the data. 

So far we have described privacy from a personal standpoint, where the subject is a 

person. But public and private organizations are interested in privacy, too. Companies 

may have data they consider private or sensitive: product plans, key customers, profit 

margins, and newly discovered technologies, as examples. For private enterprise, pri-

vacy usually relates to gaining and maintaining an edge over the competition. Other 

organizations, such as schools, hospitals, or charities, may need to protect personal data 

about their students, patients, or donors. Many organizations protect information related 

to their reputation, too; they may want to control negative news or time the release of 

information that could affect stock price or a legal decision. Most governments consider 

military and diplomatic matters sensitive, but they also recognize their responsibilities 

to provide information that informs national discourse. At the same time, governments 

have a responsibility to protect and keep confidential the data they collect from citizens, 

such as tax information. Privacy is an aspect of confidentiality. As we have learned throughout this book, the 
three security goals of confidentiality, integrity, and availability can conflict, and confiden-

tiality sometimes conflicts with availability. For example, if you choose not to have your 

telephone number published in a directory, then some people may not be able to reach you 

by telephone. Or refusing to reveal personal data to a shop may prevent you from receiv-

ing a frequent-shopper discount. So 
it is important to consider privacy 

not only as a way to protect informa-

tion but also as a possible obstacle to 

other important, positive goals.
SummaryTo summarize, here are some points about privacy:
• Privacy is controlled disclosure, in that the subject chooses what personal data 
to give out, when and to whom.
• After disclosing something, a subject relinquishes much control to the receiver.

• What data are sensitive is at the discretion of the subject; people consider dif-
ferent things sensitive. Whether a person considers something sensitive is as 

important as why it is sensitive.
• Individuals, informal groups, and formal organizations all have things they 
 consider private.
• Privacy can have a cost. Choosing not to give out certain data may limit the 
 benefits that could have come with disclosure.
In the next section we consider some examples of data that some people consider 
private.
Privacy and confidentiality relate in that 

confidentiality is a means of protecting 

what one person considers private.