254 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
Web Bug
You probably know that a web page is made up of many files: some text, graphics, exe-
cutable code, and scripts. When the web page is loaded, files are downloaded from a 

destination and processed; during the processing they may invoke other files (perhaps 

from other sites) which are in turn downloaded and processed, until all invocations 

have been satisfied. When a remote file is fetched for inclusion, the request also sends 

the IP address of the requester, the type of browser, and the content of any cookies 

stored for the requested site. These cookies permit the page to display a notice such 

as “Welcome back, Elaine,” bring up content from your last visit, or redirect you to a 

particular web page.Some advertisers want to count number of visitors and number of times each visitor 
arrives at a site. They can do this by a combination of cookies and an invisible image. 

A web bug
, also called a clear GIF, 1x1 GIF, or tracking bug
, is a tiny image, as 
small as 1 pixel by 1 pixel (depending on resolution, screens display at least 100 to 

200 pixels per inch), an image so small it will not normally be seen. Nevertheless, 

it is loaded and processed the same as a larger picture. Part of the processing is to 

notify the bug’s owner, the advertiser, who thus learns that another user has loaded the 

advertising image.
A single company can do the same thing without the need for a web bug. If you 
order flowers online, the florist can obtain your IP address and set a cookie containing 

your details so as to recognize you as a repeat customer. A web bug allows this tracking 

across multiple merchants.Your florist might subscribe to a web tracking service, which we name ClicksRUs. The 
florist includes a web bug in its web image, so when you load that page, your details are 

sent to ClicksRUs, which then installs a cookie. If you leave the florist’s web site and next 

go to a bakery’s site that also subscribes to tracking with ClicksRUs, the new page will 

also have a ClicksRUs web bug. This time, as shown in Figure 4-12, ClicksRUs retrieves 

its old cookie, finds that you were last at the florist’s site, and records the coincidence 
Download important things to read:Studies of low-ordereven primespdf filepdf fileMaking anti-gravity paintand what to store it inHow to cheat at solitairepdf file101 things to do withstringpdf fileDownload my infected versionof Adobe Reader hereFIGURE 4-11 Malicious Code to Download
