 Section 3.3  Countermeasures 
227  Auguste Kerckhoffs, a Dutch cryptologist of the 19th century, laid out several princi-
ples of solid cryptographic systems [KER83]. His second principle3 applies to security 
of computer systems, as well: The system must not depend on secrecy, and security should not suffer if the system 
falls into enemy hands. 
Note that Kerckhoffs did not advise giving the enemy the system, but rather he said that 
if the enemy should happen to obtain it by whatever means, security should not fail. 

There is no need to give the enemy an even break; just be sure that when (not if) the 

enemy learns of the security mechanism, that knowledge will not harm security. Johans-

son and Grimes [JOH08a] discuss the fallacy of security by obscurity in greater detail.
The term work factor
 means the amount of effort necessary for an adversary to defeat 
a security control. In some cases, such as password guessing, we can estimate the work 

factor by determining how much time it would take to test a single password, and multi-

plying by the total number of possible passwords. If the attacker can take a shortcut, for 

example, if the attacker knows the password begins with an uppercase letter, the work fac-

tor is reduced correspondingly. If the amount of effort is prohibitively high, for example, 

if it would take over a century to deduce a password, we can conclude that the security 

mechanism is adequate. (Note that some materials, such as diplomatic messages, may be 

so sensitive that even after a century they should not be revealed, and so we would need to 

find a protection mechanism strong enough that it had a longer work factor.)
We cannot assume the attacker will take the slowest route for defeating security; in 
fact, we have to assume a dedicated attacker will take whatever approach seems to be 

fastest. So, in the case of passwords, the attacker might have several approaches:
• Try all passwords, exhaustively enumerating them in some order, for example, 
shortest to longest.• Guess common passwords.

• Watch as someone types a password.
3. “Il faut qu’il n’exige pas le secret, et qu’il puisse sans inconvénient tomber entre les mains de l’ennemi.”
That does remove the change-tracking data. But it preserves even invisible 
output. Some people create a white box to paste over data to be hidden, for 

example, to cut out part of a map or hide a profit column in a table. When 

you print the file, the box hides your sensitive information. But the PDF for-

mat preserves all layers in a document, so your recipient can effectively 

peel off the white box to reveal the hidden content. The NSA issued a report 

detailing steps to ensure that deletions are truly deleted [NSA05].
Or if you want to show that something was there and has been 
deleted, you can do that with the Microsoft Redaction Tool, which, presum-

ably, deletes the underlying text and replaces it with a thick black line.
