732 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsCulp argued [CUL01] that “a vendor’s responsibility is to its customers, not to a self-
described security community.” He opposed what he called “information anarchy, . . .  
the practice of deliberately publishing explicit, step-by-step instructions for exploiting 

security vulnerabilities without regard for how the information may be used.” But he 

also acknowledged that the process of developing, distributing, and applying patches 

is imperfect, and his own company “need[s] to make it easier for users to keep their 

systems secure.”
Users’ Interests
David Litchfield, a security researcher noted for locating flaws in vendors’ programs, 
announced in May 2002 that he would no longer automatically wait for a vendor’s 

patch before going public with a vulnerability announcement. Citing “lethargy and an 

unwillingness to patch security problems as and when they are found,” [FIS02b]
 Litch-field criticized the approach of holding fixes of several vulnerabilities until enough had 

accumulated to warrant a single service pack. He makes the point that publicized or not, 

the vulnerabilities still exist. If one reporter has found the problem, so too could any 

number of malicious attackers. For a vendor to fail to provide timely patches to vulner-

abilities of which the vendor is aware leaves the users wide open to attacks of which the 

user may be unaware.
Litchfield’s solution is to put pressure on the vendor. He announced he would give 
vendors one week’s notice of a vulnerability before publicizing the vulnerability—but 

not the details of how to exploit it—to the world.
“Responsible” Vulnerability Reporting
Clearly the conflicting interests of vendors and users must meet at some compromise 
position. Christey and Wysopal [CHR02] have proposed a vulnerability reporting pro-

cess that meets constraints of timeliness, fair play, and responsibility. They call the user 

reporting a suspected vulnerability a “reporter” and the manufacturer the “vendor.” A 

third party—such as a computer emergency response center—called a “coordinator” 

could also play a role when a power issue or conflict arises between reporter and ven-

dor. Basically, the process requires reporter and vendor to do the following:
• The vendor must acknowledge a vulnerability report confidentially to the 
reporter.
• The vendor must agree that the vulnerability exists (or argue otherwise) confi-
dentially to the reporter.
• The vendor must inform users of the vulnerability and any available counter-
measures within 30 days or request additional time from the reporter as needed.• After informing users, the vendor may request from the reporter a 30-day quiet 
period to allow users time to install patches.
• At the end of the quiet period the vendor and reporter should agree upon a date at 
which time the vulnerability information may be released to the general public.• The vendor should credit the reporter with having located the vulnerability.
