 Section 8.3  Cloud Security Tools and Techniques 
567  Unfortunately, short of extensive security testing of your cloud providers and part-
ners, there is not much you can do to protect yourself from these issues. The best way 

to prepare is to recognize that a product you rely on will have a major vulnerability at 

some point and to make sure you’re ready to respond when that time comes. That could 

mean being able to patch quickly; being prepared to switch cloud providers; or having 

redundant systems that rely on different sets of products and cloud services.
Logging and Incident Response The need to detect and respond to security incidents that take place in public clouds 

creates interesting challenges. The primary way that SOC analysts identify and investi-

gate security incidents is with system log data. In a normal enterprise, security-relevant 

logs come from a number of sources, including OSs, malware scanners, vulnerability 

scanners, IDSs, firewalls, and business applications. Some of the log data will consist 

of alerts to potential malicious behavior, while other log data will help analysts build a 

sense of context around a potential security incident—who was logged in, what applica-

tions were running, and other such useful information.If a security incident is particularly interesting—perhaps because it had significant 
consequences or was novel in some way—the victim may wish to investigate more 

deeply with computer forensics. A primary goal of a forensic investigation is to pre-

serve as much relevant evidence as reliably as possible, and to do so in a way that is 

convincing to a court of law. This may mean taking snapshots of memory and hard disks 

before powering systems down or removing them from the network, carefully preserv-

ing physical drives, and safeguarding log files from devices that lack storage. 
As you may have guessed by now, the problem with doing all of this when you are 
attacked in a public cloud is that you may not have access to a lot of the necessary data 

and functionality. SaaS offerings will generally be the least helpful in these scenarios, 

as they typically only provide users with limited application-layer logs and no insight 

into or control over underlying systems and networks. PaaS is slightly better because 

customers can have complete control over the logs their applications generate and can 

sometimes configure runtime environment logging. As with SaaS, however, PaaS cus-

tomers have no control over the underlying systems [BIR11]. IaaS services provide the 

most flexible options for logging and forensics because they give customers complete 

control over operating systems, applications, and virtual networks. The customer can 

enable any desired logging within those spheres of control and can use VM snapshots—

the ability to save and restore the exact state of a VM at a moment in time—to achieve 

a powerful forensic analysis and evidence preservation capability. Even with IaaS, how-

ever, a number of logs will likely be unavailable to customers, including those generated 

by hypervisors, underlying physical systems, and provider networks. 
The most important thing a public cloud customer can do to prepare for incident 
detection and response is to address logging and forensics when writing SLAs with pro-

viders. SLAs can include requirements for incident notification, evidence preservation, 

and access to evidence; they can also specify available log types and other potential evi-

dence sources [CSA13]. Relevant data may include logs from web servers, applications, 

databases, OSs, hypervisors, network devices, security appliances, and cloud computing 

platforms, as well as network traffic captures.
