501In this chapter:• database terms and concepts
• security requirements: C-I–A; reliability, types of integrity

• access control; sensitive data, disclosure, inference, 
aggregation• data mining and big data
Protecting data is at the heart of many secure systems, and many users (people, 

programs, or systems) rely on a database management system (DBMS) to man-

age the protection of structured data. For this reason, we devote this chapter to the 
security of databases and database management systems, as an example of how applica-

tion security can be designed and implemented for a specific task. 
Databases are essential to many business and government organizations, holding 
data that reflect the organization’s core activities. Often, when business processes are 

reengineered to make them more effective and more in tune with new or revised goals, 

one of the first systems to receive careful scrutiny is the set of databases supporting the 

business processes. Thus, databases are more than software-related repositories. Their 

organization and contents are considered valuable corporate assets that must be care-

fully protected.However, the protection provided by database management systems has had mixed 
results. Over time, we have improved our understanding of database security problems, 

and several good controls have been developed. But there are still more security con-

cerns for which no controls are available.
We begin this chapter with a brief summary of database terminology. We then con-
sider the security requirements for database management systems. Two major security 

problems—integrity and secrecy—are explained in a database context. We continue the 

chapter by studying two important (but related) database security problems, the inference 

problem and the multilevel problem. Both problems are complex, and there are no imme-

diate solutions. However, by understanding the problems, we become more sensitive to 

ways of
 reducing potential threats to the data. Finally, we conclude the chapter by looking 
7Databases