358 Chapter 6  
NetworksMany Points of Attack  
Simple computing system is a self-contained unit. Access controls on one machine pre-

serve the confidentiality of data on that processor. However, when a file is stored in a 

network host remote from the user, the data or the file itself may pass through many 

hosts to get to the user. One host’s administrator may enforce rigorous security policies, 

but that administrator has no control over other hosts in the network. Thus, the user 

must depend on the access control mechanisms in each of these systems. An attack can 

come from any host to any host, so a large network offers many points of vulnerability.
Sharing Because networks enable resource and workload sharing, networked systems open up 

potential access to more users than do single computers. Perhaps worse, access is afforded 

to more systems, so access controls for single systems may be inadequate in networks.
System Complexity In Chapter 5 we saw that an operating system is a complicated piece of software. Reli-

able security is difficult, if not impossible, on a large operating system, especially one 

not designed specifically for security. A network combines two or more possibly dis-

similar operating systems. Therefore, a network operating/control system is likely to be 

more complex than an operating system for a single computing system. Furthermore, 

the ordinary laptop computer today has greater computing power than did many office 

computers in the last two decades. 
The attacker can use this power to advantage by causing the victim’s computer to 
perform part of the attack’s computation. And because an average computer is so pow-

erful, most users do not know what their computers are really doing at any moment: 

What processes are active in the 

background while you are playing 

Invaders from Mars? This complex-

ity diminishes confidence in the net-

work’s security.
domain administrator could also modify the authentication database to 
access anything else in the forest.
For this reason, system administrators had to consider how they defined 
domains and their separation in a network. Otherwise, they could conjure up 

scary but possible scenarios. For instance, suppose one domain adminis-

trator was a bad apple. She worked out a way to modify the authentication 

database to make herself an administrator for the entire forest. Then she could 

access any data in the forest, turn on services for some users, and turn off 

services for other users. This example reinforces the security point introduced 

in Chapter 3 of the importance of least privilege and separation of privilege.
Most users have no idea of all the processes active in the background on 

their computers.SIDEBAR 6-4 Continued