 Section 6.7  Firewalls 
461  • A government agency wants to respond to queries through a database manage-
ment system. However, the agency wants to screen results so that no names or 

identification are returned in results—only counts in categories.
• A company with multiple offices wants to encrypt the data portion of all email 
to addresses at its other offices. (A corresponding proxy at the remote end will 

remove the encryption.)
Each of these requirements can be met with a proxy. In the first case, the proxy 
would monitor the file transfer protocol data to ensure that only the price list file was 

accessed and that the file could only be read, not modified. The school’s requirement 

could be met by a logging procedure as part of the web browser. The agency’s need 

could be satisfied by a special-purpose proxy that interacted with the database manage-

ment system, performing queries but filtering the output. A firewall application could 

encrypt and decrypt specific email messages for the last situation. These functions are 

shown in Figure 6-56.
The proxies on the firewall can be tailored to specific requirements, such as logging 
details about accesses. They can even present a common user interface to what may be 

dissimilar internal functions. Suppose the internal network has a mixture of operating 

system types, none of which support strong authentication through a challenge–response 
token. The proxy can demand strong authentication (name, password, and challenge–

response), validate the challenge–response itself, and then pass on only simple name 

and password authentication details in the form required by a specific internal host’s 

operating system. (This proxy action is similar to the single sign-on process described 
in Chapter 2.)The distinction between a proxy and a screening router is that the proxy interprets the protocol stream as an application would, to control actions through the firewall on 

the basis of things visible within the protocol, not just on external header data.
FIGURE 6-56 Proxy Firewall Functions
FilecacheLoggingResultsFilteredcommands