 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
393  Integrity Program
 (TKIP), by which the encryption key is changed automatically on 
each packet.
WPA also uses a hierarchy of keys to establish a new key for each session. These 
keys permit the access point (called the authenticator) and the connecting device (called 

the supplicant) to create and exchange keys for confidentiality and integrity that are 

unique to the association session.Authentication Second, WEP uses the encryption key as an authenticator, albeit insecurely. WPA 

employs the extensible authentication protocol (EAP) by which authentication can be 

done by password, token, certificate, or other mechanism. For small network (home) 

users, this probably still means a shared secret, which is not ideal. Users are prone to 
select weak keys, such as short numbers or passphrases subject to a dictionary attack.
Strong Encryption The encryption algorithm for WEP had been RC4, which has cryptographic flaws both 

in key length and design [ARB02]. In WEP the initialization vector for RC4 is only 24 

bits, a size so small that collisions commonly occur; furthermore, WEP does not check 

against initialization vector reuse.
WPA2 adds AES as a possible encryption algorithm (although RC4 is also still sup-
ported for compatibility). AES (described in Chapter 2) is a much stronger encryption 

algorithm, in part because it uses a longer encryption key (which increases the time for 

an exhaustive search from days to millennia). 
Integrity Protection WEP includes a 32-bit integrity check separate from the data portion. But because the 

WEP encryption is subject to cryptanalytic attack [FLU01], the integrity check was also 

subject, so an attacker could modify content and the corresponding check without hav-

ing to know the associated encryption key [BOR01]. WPA includes a 64-bit integrity 

check that is encrypted.Session Initiation The setup protocol for WPA and WPA2 is much more robust than that for WEP. Setup 

for WPA involves three protocol steps: authentication, a four-way handshake (to ensure 

that the client can generate cryptographic keys and to generate and install keys for both 

encryption and integrity on both ends), and an optional group key handshake (for multi-

cast communication). Lehembre [LEH05] affords a good overview of the WPA protocols.
WPA and WPA2 address the security deficiencies known in WEP. Arazi et al. 
[ARA05] make a strong case for public key cryptography in wireless sensor networks, 

and a similar argument can be made for other wireless applications (although the 

heavier computation demands of 

public key encryption is a limiting 

factor on wireless devices with lim-

ited processor capabilities). WEP 

use is declining in favor of WPA, as 

described in Sidebar 6-15.WPA fixes many shortcomings of WEP 

by using stronger encryption; longer, 

changing keys; and secure integrity 

checks.