778 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographybe difficult to select keys such that the sum of the values of the letters of the key is a 
prime number. Restrictions such as these make the use of the encipherment prohibi-

tively complex. If the process is too complex, it will not be used. Furthermore, the key 

must be transmitted, stored, and remembered, so it must be short (for hand implementa-
tion, at least).3. The implementation of the process should be as simple as possible.Manual implementation motivated principle 3: A complicated algorithm is prone to 
error or likely to be forgotten. With the development and popularity of digital comput-

ers, algorithms far too complex for hand implementation became feasible. Still, the 

issue of complexity is important. People will avoid an encryption algorithm whose 

implementation process severely hinders message transmission, thereby undermining 

security. And a complex algorithm is more likely to be programmed incorrectly.
4. Errors in ciphering should not propagate and cause corruption of further infor-
mation in the message.Principle 4 acknowledges that humans make errors in their use of enciphering algo-
rithms. One error early in the process should not throw off the entire remaining cipher-

text. For example, dropping one letter in a transposition throws off the entire remaining 

encipherment. Unless the receiver can determine where the letter was dropped, the 

remainder of the message will be unintelligible. By contrast, reading the wrong row or 

column for a table-driven substitution affects only one character—remaining characters 

are unaffected.
5. The size of the enciphered text should be no larger than the text of the original 
message.Behind principle 5 is the idea that a ciphertext that expands dramatically in size 
cannot possibly carry more information than the plaintext, yet it gives the cryptanalyst 

more data from which to infer a pattern. Furthermore, a longer ciphertext implies more 

space for storage and more time to communicate.These principles were developed before the ready availability of digital computers, 
even though Shannon was aware of computers and the computational power they rep-

resented. Thus, some of the concerns he expressed about hand implementation are not 

really limitations on computer-based implementation. For example, a cipher’s imple-

mentation on a computer need not be simple, as long as the time complexity of the 

implementation is tolerable. Nevertheless, the rationale implied by these principles is to 

a large degree still valid.
Properties of “Trustworthy” Encryption Systems
Commercial users have several requirements that must be satisfied when they select 
an encryption algorithm. Thus, when we say that encryption is “commercial grade,” or 

“trustworthy” we mean that it meets these constraints:
• It is based on sound mathematics. Good cryptographic algorithms are not just 
invented; they are derived from solid principles.
