2 Chapter 1  
Introduction[Beep Beep Beep: the sound pattern of the U.S. government Emergency Alert System. 
The following text then scrolled across the screen:
]Civil authorities in your area have reported that the bodies of the dead are rising from 
their graves and attacking the living. Follow the messages on screen that will be updated 

as information becomes available.
Do not attempt to approach or apprehend these bodies as they are considered extremely 
dangerous. This warning applies to all areas receiving this broadcast.
[Beep Beep Beep]The warning signal sounded authentic; it had the distinctive tone people recognize 
for warnings of serious emergencies such as hazardous weather or a natural disaster. 

And the text was displayed across a live broadcast television program. On the other 

hand, bodies rising from their graves sounds suspicious. 
What would you have done?

Only four people contacted police for assurance that the warning was indeed a hoax. 
As you can well imagine, however, a different message could have caused thousands 

of people to jam the highways trying to escape. (On 30 October 1938 Orson Welles 

performed a radio broadcast of the H. G. Wells play 
War of the Worlds 
that did cause a minor panic of people believing that Martians had landed and were wreaking havoc in 

New Jersey.)
The perpetrator of this hoax was never caught, nor has it become clear exactly how 
it was done. Likely someone was able to access the system that feeds emergency broad-

casts to local radio and television stations. In other words, a hacker probably broke into 

a computer system.You encounter computers daily in countless situations, often in cases in which you 
are scarcely aware a computer is involved, like the emergency alert system for broadcast 

media. These computers move money, control airplanes, monitor health, lock doors, 

play music, heat buildings, regulate hearts, deploy airbags, tally votes, direct com-

munications, regulate traffic, and do hundreds of other things that affect lives, health, 

finances, and well-being. Most of the time these computers work just as they should. 

But occasionally they do something horribly wrong, because of either a benign failure 

or a malicious attack.This book is about the security of computers, their data, and the devices and objects 
to which they relate. In this book you will learn some of the ways computers can fail—

or be made to fail—and how to protect against those failures. We begin that study in 

the way any good report does: by answering the basic questions of what, who, why, 

and how.
1.1 WHAT IS COMPUTER SECURITY?
Computer security is the protection of the items you value, called the 
assets of a com-
puter or computer system. There are many types of assets, involving hardware, soft-

ware, data, people, processes, or combinations of these. To determine what to protect, 

we must first identify what has value and to whom.
