 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
619  data value is that value exactly. With three data values, the means of each pair yield 
three equations in three unknowns, which you know can be solved easily with linear 

algebra. A similar approach works for very large subsets of the entire database. Mid-

sized subsets preserve privacy quite well. So privacy is maintained with the rule of 

n items, over 
k percent, as described in Chapter 7.As described in Chapter 7, data perturbation can be used to reduce the risk from 
aggregation. Perturbation does not limit the ability of researchers to work with the sta-

tistics of a dataset; it just prevents linking of individual identities with specific data 

items, thereby preserving privacy. Often, researchers can draw conclusions from the 

distribution and magnitude of a population, thus preserving privacy without impeding 

valid research.
Vaidya and Clifton [VAI04] also describe a method by which databases can be par-
titioned to preserve privacy. Our trivial example in Table 9-1 could be an example of 

a database that was partitioned vertically to separate the sensitive association of name 

and condition.Summary of Data Mining PrivacyAs we have described in this section, data mining and privacy are not mutually exclu-
sive: We can derive results from data mining without sacrificing privacy. True, some 

accuracy is lost with perturbation. A counterargument is that the weakening of confi-

dence in conclusions most seriously affects weak results; strong conclusions become 

only marginally less strong. Additional research will likely produce additional tech-

niques for preserving privacy during data mining operations.
We 
can derive results without sacrificing privacy, but privacy will not exist auto-
matically. The techniques described here must be applied by people who understand 

and respect privacy implications. 

Left unchecked, data mining has 

the potential to undermine privacy. 

Security professionals need to con-

tinue to press for privacy in data 

mining applications.9.5 PRIVACY ON THE WEB
The Internet is sometimes viewed as the greatest threat to privacy. As Chapter 7 says, an 

advantage of the Internet, which is also a disadvantage, is anonymity. A user can visit 

websites, send messages, and interact with applications without revealing an identity. 

At least that is what we would like to think. Unfortunately, because of things like cook-

ies, adware, spybots, and malicious code, the anonymity is superficial and largely one-

sided. Sophisticated web applications can know a lot about a user, but the user knows 

relatively little about the application.
The topic is clearly of great interest: a recent Google search returned over 7 billion 
hits for the terms “web” and “privacy” together, and 634,000 hits for the phrase “web 

privacy.”
In this section we investigate some of the ways a user’s privacy is lost on the Internet.
We 
can derive useful research results 
without sacrificing privacy, but privacy 

will not automatically exist.