 Section 6.6  Cryptography in Network Security 
443  data from the time it has been typed 
until the operating system delivers it 

to the client’s browser, thus thwart-

ing any keylogging Trojan horse that 

has become implanted in the user’s 

computer to reveal everything the 

user types.Onion RoutingAs we described both link and end-to-end encryption, the data portion of the commu-
nication was secured for confidentiality. However, the addressing data were exposed. 

Thus, someone monitoring traffic between points A and B would know the volume of 

traffic communicated.
Paul Syverson and colleagues [SYV97] introduced the concept of 
onion routing
. That model uses a collection of forwarding hosts, each of whom knows only from where 

a communication was received and to where to send it next. Thus, to send untraceable 

data from A to B, A picks some number of forwarding hosts, call them X, Y, and Z. A 

begins by encrypting the communication under B’s public key. A then appends a header 

from Z to B, and encrypts the result under Z’s public key. A then puts a header on that 

from Y to Z and encrypts that under Y’s public key. A then puts a header on that com-

munication from X to Y and encrypts that under X’s public key. Finally, A puts on a 

header to send the package to X.Upon receiving the package, X decrypts it and finds instructions to forward the inner 
package to Y. Y then decrypts it and finds instructions to forward the inner package to Z. 

Z then decrypts it and finds instructions to forward the inner package to B. The package 

is deconstructed like peeling the layers from an onion, which is why this technique is 

called onion routing.No intermediate host can know who the ultimate recipient is. Even Z cannot tell that 
B is the final destination, because what Z delivers to B is encrypted under B’s public 

key. Thus, X, Y, and Z know only that they are intermediaries, but they do not know 

which other intermediaries there are, how many of them there are, or where they are in 

the chain. Any intermediate recipients—those other than the original sender and ulti-

mate recipient—know neither where the package originated nor where it will end. This 

scheme provides confidentiality of content, source, destination, and routing.
Packages for onion routing can be any network transmissions. The most popular 
uses, however, are covert email (in which the recipient cannot determine who was the 

original sender), and private web browsing (in which neither the destination host nor 

an eavesdropper monitoring the sender’s outgoing communication can determine the 

destination host or traffic content).
The Tor project (https://www.torproject.org/) distributes free software and enlists 
an open network that uses onion routing to defend against traffic analysis. Tor (which 

stands for The Onion Router) protects by transferring communications around a dis-

tributed network of over 5,000 relays run by volunteers all around the world: It pre-

vents outsiders watching Internet connections from learning what sites a user visits, 
SSL encryption protects only from the 

browser to the destination decryption 

point. Vulnerabilities before encryption 

or after decryption are unaffected.
