822 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
service providers, electric utilities, nonprofit research institutions, and small businesses. 
It shows that various pressures, both internal and external, drive organizations to scruti-

nize the amount and effectiveness of their cybersecurity practices and products.
But how do companies decide how much to invest in cybersecurity, and in what 
ways? Typically, they use some kind of benchmarking, in which they learn what other, 

similar companies are spending; then they allocate similar amounts of resources. For 

example, if Mammoth Manufacturing is assessing the sufficiency of its cybersecurity 

investments, it may determine (through surveys or consultants) that other manufacturing 

companies usually spend x percent of their information technology budgets on security. 
If Mammoth’s investment is very different, then Mammoth’s executives may question 

what is different about Mammoth’s needs, practices, or risk tolerance. It may be that 

Mammoth has a more capable support staff, or simply that Mammoth has a higher tol-

erance for risk. Such analysis helps Mammoth executives decide if investments should 

increase, decrease, or stay the same.Companies seldom release detailed data on their expenditures, assuming those facts 
might help competitors and serve no other positive purpose. Thus, data on security 

spending often come from industry groups (lobbying associations or common-interest 

roundtables, for example) or from 

projections from industry analysts 

such as Gartner Group. Thus, the 

basis for firms’ security spending is 

difficult to obtain or compare.
Notice that this budgeting approach suggests only an appropriate level of spending. 
Staff members must then make intelligent, detailed decisions about specific expendi-

tures: for instance, what capabilities are needed, what products should be purchased and 
supported, and what kind of training may be helpful. Solid data on which to base business 
security spending is hard to come by.
TABLE 13-1  
Inﬂuences on Cybersecurity Investment Strategy (adapted from [ROW06])
Categories of InfluenceAverage Percentage 
Across Organizations
Regulatory requirement30.1
Network history or information technology staff knowledge18.9

Client requirement or request16.2

Result of internal or external audit12.4

Response to current events, such as media attention8.2

Response to compromised internal security7.3

Reaction to external mandate or request5.0

Other1.7