 Section 12.1  Cryptology 
769  to study cryptography in depth. And we caution you strongly against studying a little 
cryptography and concluding that you can design your own secure cryptosystem. The 

field of cryptography is littered with failed approaches designed even by experts, so 

nonexperts are well advised to “leave the driving to the professionals.” See, for exam-

ple, Sidebar 12-1 on the perils of inventing your own cryptography.
12.1 CRYPTOLOGY
In this section we study two related things: inventing codes and breaking them. Sports 

players learn offensive moves by studying defensive maneuvers, and vice versa. There-

fore, we present the primitive aspects of making and breaking codes together.
CryptanalysisRemember from Chapter 2 that cryptanalysis is the act of studying a cryptographic 

algorithm, its implementation, plaintext, ciphertext, and any other available information 

to try to break the protection of encryption.A cryptanalyst can attempt to do any or all of six different things:
• Break (decrypt) a single message.
• Recognize patterns in encrypted messages, so as to break subsequent ones by 
applying a straightforward decryption algorithm.
• Infer some meaning without even breaking the encryption, such as noticing an 
unusual frequency of communication or determining something by whether the 

communication was short or long.
SIDEBAR 12-1 Mafia Boss Uses Encryption
Arrested in Sicily in April 2006, the reputed head of an Italian Mafia fam-
ily, Bernardo Provenzano, made notes, 
pizzini in the Sicilian dialect. When 
arrested, he left approximately 350 of the notes behind. In the 
pizzini he 
gives instructions to his lieutenants regarding particular people.
Instead of writing the name of a person, Provenzano used a variation 
of the Caesar cipher in which letters were replaced by numbers: A by 4, 

B by 5, . . . Z by 24 (there are only 21 letters in the Italian alphabet). So in 

one of his notes the string “. . . I met 512151522 191212154 and we agreed 

that we will see each other after the holidays . . .,” refers to Binnu Riina, an 

associate arrested soon after Provenzano [LOR06]. Police decrypted notes 

found before Provenzano’s arrest and used clues in them to find the boss, 

wanted for 40 years.All notes appear to use the same encryption, making them trivial to 
decrypt once police discerned the pattern.
Suggestions we might make to Sig. Provenzano: use a strong encryp-
tion algorithm, change the encryption key from time to time, and hire a 

cryptologist.
