 Section 10.5  Dealing with Disaster 
693  A more secure way to destroy data on magnetic devices is to overwrite the data several 
times, using a different pattern each time. This process removes enough magnetic resi-

due to prevent most people from reconstructing the original file. However, “cleaning” a 

disk in this fashion takes time. Moreover, a person using highly specialized equipment 

might be able to identify each separate message, much like the process of peeling off 

layers of wallpaper to reveal the wall beneath. 
DegaussingDegaussers destroy magnetic fields. Passing a disk or other magnetic medium through 
a degausser generates a magnetic flux so forceful that all magnetic charges are instantly 

realigned, thereby fusing all the separate layers. A degausser is a fast way to cleanse a 

magnetic medium, although experts question whether it is adequate for use in the most 

sensitive of applications. (Media that have had the same pattern for a long time, such as 

a disk saved for archival purposes, may retain traces of the original pattern even after 

it has been overwritten many times or degaussed.) For most users, a degausser is a fast 

way to neutralize a disk or tape, permitting it to be reused by others.
Protecting Against Emanation: Tempest
Computer screens emit signals that can be detected from a distance. In fact, any compo-
nents, including printers, disk drives, and processors, can emit information. Tempest is 

a U.S. government program under which computer equipment is certified as emission 

free (that is, no detectable emissions). There are two approaches for preparing a device 

for Tempest certification: enclosing the device and modifying the emanations.
The obvious solution to preventing emanations is to trap the signals before they  
can be picked up. Enclosing a device in a conductive case, such as copper, diffuses all 

the waves by conducting them throughout the case. Copper is a good conductor, and  

the waves travel much better through copper than through the air outside the case, so the 

emissions are rendered harmless.This solution works very well with cable, which is then enclosed in a solid, emana-
tion-proof shield. Typically, the shielded cable is left exposed so that anyone can inspect 

visually for signs of tapping or other tampering. The shielding must be complete. That 

is, it does little good to shield a length of cable but not also shield the junction box at 

which that cable is connected to a component. The line to the component and the com-

ponent itself must be shielded, too.The shield must enclose the device completely. If top, bottom, and three sides are 
shielded, emanations are prevented only in those directions. However, a solid copper 

shield is useless in front of a computer screen. Covering the screen with a fine copper 

mesh in an intricate pattern carries the emanation safely away. This approach solves the 

emanation problem while still maintaining the screen’s usability.
Entire computer rooms or even whole buildings can be shielded in copper so that 
large computers inside do not leak sensitive emanations. Although it seems appealing 

to shield the room or building instead of each component, the scheme has significant 

drawbacks. A shielded room is inconvenient because it is impossible to easily expand 

the room as needs change. The shielding must be done carefully, because any puncture 
