230 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programming4. A program is written to compute the sum of the integers from 1 to 10. The programmer, well 
trained in reusability and maintainability, writes the program so that it computes the sum of 

the numbers from k to n. However, a team of security specialists scrutinizes the code. The 

team certifies that this program properly sets k to 1 and n to 10; therefore, the program is 

certified as being properly restricted in that it always operates on precisely the range 1 to 10. 

List different ways that this program can be sabotaged so that during execution it computes a 

different sum, such as 3 to 20.
5. One way to limit the effect of an untrusted program is confinement: controlling what pro-
cesses have access to the untrusted program and what access the program has to other pro-

cesses and data. Explain how confinement would apply to the earlier example of the program 

that computes the sum of the integers 1 to 10.
6. List three controls that could be applied to detect or prevent off-by-one errors.
7. The distinction between a covert storage channel and a covert timing channel is not clearcut. 
Every timing channel can be transformed into an equivalent storage channel. Explain how 

this transformation could be done.8. List the limitations on the amount of information leaked per second through a covert channel 
in a multiaccess computing system.9. An electronic mail system could be used to leak information. First, explain how the leakage 
could occur. Then, identify controls that could be applied to detect or prevent the leakage.
10. Modularity can have a negative as well as a positive effect. A program that is overmodular-
ized performs its operations in very small modules, so a reader has trouble acquiring an 

overall perspective on what the system is trying to do. That is, although it may be easy to 

determine what individual modules do and what small groups of modules do, it is not easy to 

understand what they do in their entirety as a system. Suggest an approach that can be used 

during program development to provide this perspective.
11. You are given a program that purportedly manages a list of items through hash coding. The 
program is supposed to return the location of an item if the item is present or to return 

the location where the item should be inserted if the item is not in the list. Accompanying 

the program is a manual describing parameters such as the expected format of items in the 

table, the table size, and the specific calling sequence. You have only the object code of this 

program, not the source code. List the cases you would apply to test the correctness of the 

program’s function.
12. You are writing a procedure to add a node to a doubly linked list. The system on which this 
procedure is to be run is subject to periodic hardware failures. The list your program is to 

maintain is of great importance. Your program must ensure the integrity of the list, even if the 

machine fails in the middle of executing your procedure. Supply the individual statements 

you would use in your procedure to update the list. (Your list should be fewer than a dozen 

statements long.) Explain the effect of a machine failure after each instruction. Describe how 

you would revise this procedure so that it would restore the integrity of the basic list after a 

machine failure.
13. Explain how information in an access log could be used to identify the true identity of an 
impostor who has acquired unauthorized access to a computing system. Describe several 

different pieces of information in the log that could be combined to identify the impostor.
