 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
355  Wiretapping
 is the name given to data interception, often covert and unauthorized. 
As Sidebar 6-3 explains, even a backdoor intended only for court-authorized wiretaps 

can be misused. The name wiretap refers to the original mechanism, which was a device 

that was attached to a wire to split off a second pathway that data would follow in addi-

tion to the primary path. Now, of course, the media range from copper wire to fiber 

cables and radio signals, and the way to tap depends on the medium.
Users generally have little control over the routing of a signal. With the telephone 
system, for example, a call from New York to Sydney might travel west by satellite, 

transfer to an undersea cable, and reach the ultimate destination on conventional wire. 

Along the way, the signal could pass through different countries, as well as interna-

tional regions of the oceans and sky. The same is true of networked digital communi-

cations, which use some of the same resources telephony does. The signal may travel 

through hostile regions and areas full of competitors. Along the way may be people with 

method, opportunity, and motive to obtain your data. Thus, a wide area network can be 

far riskier than a well-controlled local network.
Encryption is the strongest and most commonly used countermeasure against inter-ception, although physical security (protecting the communications lines themselves), 

dedicated lines, and controlled routing (ensuring that a communication travels only 

along certain paths) have their roles, as well. We examine encryption for communica-

tion later in this chapter.
What Makes a Network Vulnerable to Interception?
An isolated home user or a standalone office with a few employees is an unlikely target 
for many attacks. But add a network to the mix and the risk rises sharply. Consider how 

a network differs from a stand-alone environment.
Anonymity An attacker can mount an attack from thousands of miles away and never come into 

direct contact with the system, its administrators, or users. The potential attacker is thus 

safe behind an electronic shield. The attack can be passed through many other hosts in 

an effort to disguise the attack’s origin. And computer-to-computer authentication is not 

the same for computers as it is for humans. As illustrated by Sidebar 6-4, secure distrib-

uted authentication requires thought and attention to detail.SIDEBAR 6-3 Unintended Intended Interception
Telecommunications providers cooperate with governments in what is 
called lawful interception. Any time a court authorizes a wiretap on tele-

phone or data communications, government agents work with service 

providers to install the tap. Modern telecommunications hardware and soft-

ware include special features to implement these wiretaps as technology 

has evolved. Even voice communications are now often transmitted digi-

tally, using routers and routing protocols like those for data networking on 

the Internet.
(continues)