128 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
• per-object access control list (that is, one list for each object tells all the subjects who 
have access to that object)
• access control matrix• capability2. Suppose a per-subject access control list is used. Deleting an object in such a system is incon-
venient because all changes must be made to the control lists of all subjects who did have 

access to the object. Suggest an alternative, less costly means of handling deletion.
3. File access control relates largely to the secrecy dimension of security. What is the relation-
ship between an access control matrix and the integrity of the objects to which access is 

being controlled?4. One feature of a capability-based protection system is the ability of one process to transfer a copy of a capability to another process. Describe a situation in which one process should be 

able to transfer a capability to another.
5. Suggest an efficient scheme for maintaining a per-user protection scheme. That is, the system 
maintains one directory per user, and that directory lists all the objects to which the user is 

allowed access. Your design should address the needs of a system with 1000 users, of whom 

no more than 20 are active at any time. Each user has an average of 200 permitted objects; 

there are 50,000 total objects in the system.6. Calculate the timing of password-guessing attacks:
(a) If passw
ords are three uppercase alphabetic characters long, how much time would it 
take to determine a particular password, assuming that testing an individual password 

requires 5 seconds? How much time if testing requires 0.001 seconds?
(b) Argue for a particular amount of time as the starting point for “secure.” That is, suppose 
an attacker plans to use a brute-force attack to determine a password. For what value of 
x (the total amount of time to try as many passwords as necessary) would the attacker find 

this attack prohibitively long?
(c) If the cutoff between “insecure” and “secure” were 
x amount of time, how long would a 
secure password have to be? State and justify your assumptions regarding the character 

set from which the password is selected and the amount of time required to test a single 

password.
7. Design a protocol by which two mutually suspicious parties can authenticate each other. Your 
protocol should be usable the first time these parties try to authenticate each other.
8. List three reasons people might be reluctant to use biometrics for authentication. Can you think of ways to counter those objections?
9. False positive and false negative rates can be adjusted, and they are often complementary: 
Lowering one raises the other. List two situations in which false negatives are significantly 

more serious than false positives.
10. In a typical office, biometric authentication might be used to control access to employees and 
registered visitors only. We know the system will have some false negatives, some employees 

falsely denied access, so we need a human override, someone who can examine the employee 

and allow access in spite of the failed authentication. Thus, we need a human guard at the 

door to handle problems, as well as the authentication device; without biometrics we would 

have had just the guard. Consequently, we have the same number of personnel with or with-

out biometrics, plus we have the added cost to acquire and maintain the biometrics system. 

Explain the security advantage in this situation that justifies the extra expense.
