334 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsRootkit Operates UncheckedIn Chapter 3 we introduced the concept of malicious code, such as a virus or Trojan 
horse that is propagated from system to system and that operates under the authority of 
the current user. As we said in that chapter, one objective of malicious code authors is to 

escalate privilege, that is, to run with the greater privileges of an administrator or more 

powerful user; obviously, the more privileges code has, the more harm it can cause. 

The ultimate privilege level is the operating system, so to replace some or all operating 

system functions amounts to achieving the highest power.
Because they want to remain undiscovered, rootkits can be difficult to detect and 
eradicate, or even to count. By one estimate, rootkits comprise 7 percent of all mali-

cious code [TRE10]. As Sidebar 5-7 describes, rootkits can also interfere with computer 

maintenance because their functionality can become intertwined with other operating 
system functions being modified.
SIDEBAR 5-7 Rootkit Kills Kernel Modification
In February 2010, Microsoft issued its usual monthly set of operating sys-
tem updates, including one patch called MS10-015, rated “important.” The 

patch was to fix one previously publicized vulnerability and one unpubli-

cized one. Microsoft advises users to install patches as soon as possible.
Unfortunately, this patch apparently interfered with the operation of a 
malicious rootkit in a rather dramatic way. After releasing the patch, Micro-

soft was inundated with complaints from users who installed the patch and 

suddenly found that their computers went into an unending loop of reboot-

ing. Microsoft issued this advice: “After you install this update on a 32-bit 

version of Microsoft Windows, you may receive a Stop error message on a 

blue screen that causes the computer to restart repeatedly. This problem 

may be caused by a conflict between the security update and malware 

that is resident on the system. This problem is not a quality issue with the 

security update, and the issue is not specific to any OEM.” [MIC10] Any-

one whose machine was already stuck continually rebooting could not, of 

course, read the message Microsoft posted.
Apparently on system startup the TDL-3 or Alureon rootkit built a 
table, using the fixed addresses of specific Windows kernel functions. 

In the Microsoft patch, these addresses were changed, so when TDL-3 

received control and tried to invoke a (real) kernel function, it transferred 

to the wrong address and the system shut down with what is known as the 

“blue screen of death” (the monitor displays a text error message against a 

blue background and reboots).
It is impossible to know the prevalence of Alureon or any rootkit in the 
computer population at large. Microsoft receives reports of the infections 

its Malicious Software Removal Tool removes from users’ machines. During 

April 2010, the tool removed 262,969 instances of one Alureon variant, so 

the interaction with MS10-015 was likely to be serious.