 Section 9.3  Authentication and Privacy 
615  specific records to individual people [AND98a, JON00]. Although there were signifi-
cant privacy difficulties, Iceland went ahead with plans to build the combined database.
In one of the most stunning analyses on deriving identities, Latanya Sweeney 
[SWE01] reports that 87 percent of the population of the United States is likely to 

be identified by the combination of 5-digit postal code (called zip code in the United 

States), gender, and date of birth. That statistic is amazing when you consider that close 

to 8,000 U.S. residents must share any birthday
2 or that the average population in any 
5-digit zip code area is 10,0003. Sweeney backs up her statistical analysis with a real-
life study. In 1997 she analyzed the voter rolls of Cambridge, Massachusetts, a city 

of about 50,000 people, one of whom was the then current governor. She took him as 

an example and found that only six people had his birth date, only three of those were 

men, and he was the only one of those three living in his zip code. As a public figure, he 

had published his date of birth in his campaign literature, but birth dates are sometimes 

available from public records. Simi-

lar work on deriving identities 

from anonymized records [SWE04, 

MAL02] showed how likely one 

is to deduce an identity from other 

easily obtained data.Sweeney’s work demonstrates compellingly how difficult it is to anonymize data 
effectively. Many medical records are coded with at least gender and date of birth, 

and those records are often thought to be releasable for anonymous research purposes. 

Furthermore, medical researchers may want a zip code to relate medical conditions to 

geography and demography; for instance, the researchers may want to track the spread 

of disease across geographic areas or by personal characteristics. Few people would 

think adding zip code would lead to such high rates of breach of privacy.
ConclusionsAs we have seen, identification and authentication are two different activities that are 

easily confused. Part of the confusion arises because people do not clearly distinguish 

the underlying concepts. The confusion is amplified when a data item is used for more 

than one purpose.Authentication depends on something that confirms a property. In life, few sound 
authenticators exist, so we tend to overuse the ones we have: an identification number, 

birth date, or family name. But, as we described, those authenticators are also some-

times used as database keys, with negative consequences to privacy.
2. Assuming, unrealistically, that the population is evenly distributed by age over a life span of 100 years, 
36,600 birthdays (day–month–year) are reflected in the over 300 million person population of the United 

States. An average of about 8,000 people have the same birthdate.
3. The United States Postal Service, which assigns zip codes, has issued about 45,000 of the 99,999 possible 
zip code values. Some zip codes, however, have no residents, such as a code assigned to a single large office 

building. The United States Census Bureau compiles statistics on nearly 32,000 regions it calls Zip Code 

Tabulation Areas, distinct areas approximating the boundary of a geographic postal zip code. With a total 

U.S. population of over 300 million, each tabulation area thus contains an average of roughly 10,000 people.
Readily available data can be linked to impinge on privacy.
