756 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicsthe outcome of this analysis may yield some rights that are important but that 
cannot be ranked first, second, third.)
• Additional information. What additional facts do you need in order to analyze 
this case? What assumptions are you making in performing the analysis?
Next, we want to consider what events led to the situation described and what alter-
native actions could have prevented the negative outcomes.
• What could Greg have done differently before starting to develop his product? 
After developing the product? After Cathy explained that the product belonged 

to Star?• What could Cathy have done differently when she was told to tell Greg that his 
products belonged to Star? What could Cathy have done differently to avert this 

decision by her management? What could Cathy have done differently to pre-

vent the clash with Greg after she went to work at Purple?
• What could Purple have done differently upon learning that it had products from 
Star (or from Greg)?
• What could Greg and Cathy have done differently after Greg spoke to Cathy at 
Purple?• What could Star have done differently to prevent Greg from feeling that he 
owned his products? What could Star have done differently to prevent Cathy 

from taking the products to Purple?Situation V: Proprietary Resources
In this story, we consider the issue of access to proprietary or restricted resources. Like 

the previous one, this situation involves access to software. The focus of this incident 

is the rights of a software developer in contrast with the rights of users, so this study 

concerns determining legitimate access rights.
The IncidentSuzie owns a copy of G-Whiz, a proprietary software package she purchased legiti-
mately. The software is copyrighted, and the documentation contains a license agree-

ment that says that the software is for use by the purchaser only. Suzie invites Luis to 

look at the software to see if it will fit his needs. Luis goes to Suzie’s computer and she 

demonstrates the software to him. He says he likes what he sees, but he would like to 

try it in a longer test.Extensions to the CaseSo far the actions have all been ethically sound. The next steps are where ethical respon-
sibilities arise. Take each of the following steps as independent; that is, do not assume 

that any of the other steps has occurred in your analysis of one step.
• Suzie offers to copy the disk for Luis to use.
• Suzie copies the disk for Luis to use, and Luis uses it for some period of time.
