780 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographycontinuing interest in encryption systems for protecting military and diplomatic secrets; it was thought that these departments were home to the greatest expertise in cryptol-

ogy. However, precisely because of the sensitive nature of the information they were 

encrypting, the departments could not release any of their work. Thus, the responsibility 

for a more public encryption technique was delegated to the NBS, an agency of the U.S. 

Department of Commerce.At the same time, several private vendors had developed mechanical or software 
encryption devices that individuals or firms could buy to protect their sensitive com-

munications. The difficulty with this commercial proliferation of encryption techniques 

was exchange: Two users with different devices could not exchange encrypted informa-

tion. Furthermore, no independent body was capable of extensively testing the devices 

to verify that they properly implemented their algorithms, or even that the algorithms 

were worth using.
It soon became clear that encryption was ripe for assessment and standardization, 
to promote the ability of unrelated parties to exchange encrypted information and to 

provide a single encryption system that could be rigorously tested and publicly certi-

fied. As a result, in 1972 the NBS called for proposals for producing a public encryption 

algorithm. The call specified desirable criteria for such an algorithm:
• able to provide a high level of security
• specified and easy to understand

• publishable, so that security does not depend on the secrecy of the algorithm

• available to all users

• adaptable for use in diverse applications

• economical to implement in electronic devices

• efficient to use

• able to be validated

• exportable
The NBS envisioned providing the encryption as a separate hardware device. To allow 
the algorithm to be public, NBS hoped to reveal the algorithm itself, basing the security 

of the system on the keys (which would be under the control of the users).
Few organizations responded to the call, so the NBS issued a second announce-
ment in August 1974. The most promising submission was the 
Lucifer algorithm on 
which IBM had been working for several years. This idea had been published earlier, 

so the basic algorithm was already public and had been open to scrutiny and valida-

tion. Although lengthy, the algorithm was straightforward, a natural candidate for itera-

tive implementation in a computer program. Furthermore, unlike some algorithms that 

use arithmetic on 500- or 1,000-digit or longer binary numbers (far larger than most 

machine instructions could handle as a single quantity), Lucifer used only simple log-

ical operations on relatively small data blocks. Thus, the algorithm could be imple-

mented fairly efficiently in either hardware or software on conventional computers.
The data encryption algorithm developed by IBM for NBS was based on Lucifer, 
and it became known as the 
Data Encryption Standard (DES), although its proper 
name is DEA (Data Encryption Algorithm) in the United States and DEA1 (Data 
