294 Chapter 5  
Operating Systemsreal resources the user is allowed to access, and redirects other requests to the virtual-
ized resources.Virtualization can apply to operating systems as well as to other resources. Thus, 
for example, one virtual machine could run the operating system of an earlier, outdated 

machine. Instead of maintaining compatibility with old operating systems, developers 

would like people to transition to a new system. However, installations with a large 

investment in the old system might prefer to make the transition gradually; to be sure 

the new system works, system managers may choose to run both old and new systems 

in parallel, so that if the new system fails for any reason, the old system provides unin-

terrupted use. In fact, for a large enough investment, some installations might prefer 

to never switch. With a hypervisor to run the old system, all legacy applications and 

systems work properly on the new system.
A hypervisor can also support two or more operating systems simultaneously. Sup-
pose you are developing an operating system for a new hardware platform; the hardware 

will not be ready for some time, but when it is available, at the same time you want 

to have an operating system that can run on it. Alas, you have no machine on which 

to develop and test your new system. The solution is a virtual machine monitor that 

simulates the entire effect of the new hardware. It receives system calls from your new 

operating system and responds just as would the real hardware. Your operating system 

cannot detect that it is running in a software-controlled environment.
This controlled environment has obvious security advantages: Consider a law firm 
working on both defense and prosecution of the same case. To install two separate com-

puting networks and computing systems for the two teams is infeasible, especially con-

sidering that the teams could legitimately share common resources (access to a library 

or use of common billing and scheduling functions, for example). Two virtual machines 

with both separation and overlap support these two sides effectively and securely.
The original justification for virtual machine monitors—shared use of large, expen-
sive mainframe computers—has been diminished with the rise of smaller, cheaper 

servers and personal computers. However, virtualization has become very helpful for 

developing support for more specialized machine clusters, such as massively parallel 

processors. These powerful niche machines are relatively scarce, so there is little moti-

vation to write operating systems that can take advantage of their hardware. But hyper-

visors can support use of conventional operating systems and applications in a parallel 

environment.
A team of IBM researchers [CHR09] has investigated how virtualization affects the 
problem of determining the integrity of code loaded as part of an operating system. The 

researchers showed that the problem is closely related to the problem of determining 

the integrity of any piece of code, for example, something downloaded from a web site
.Sandbox A concept similar to virtualiza-

tion is the notion of a sandbox. As 

its name implies, a sandbox is a 
protected environment in which a 

program can run and not endanger 

anything else on the system.
Sandbox: an environment from which a 

process can have only limited, controlled 

impact on outside resources
