 Section 7.5  Data Mining and Big Data 
537  be involved in data mining to interpret the output: Only humans can discern that more 
variables are involved (for example, time of year or places where cones are sold).
Computer security gains from data mining. Data mining is widely used to analyze system data, for example, audit logs, to identify patterns related to attacks. Finding the 

precursors to an attack can help develop good prevention tools and techniques, and seeing 

the actions associated with an attack can help pinpoint vulnerabilities to control any dam-

age that may have occurred. (One of 

the early works in this area is by Lee 

and Stolfo [LEE98], and entire con-

ferences have been devoted to this 

important and maturing topic.)In this section, however, we want to examine security problems involving data mining. 
Our now-familiar triad of confidentiality, integrity, and availability gives us clues to what 

these security issues are. Confidentiality concerns start with privacy but also include pro-

prietary and commercially sensitive data and protecting the value of intellectual property: 

How do we control what is disclosed or derived? For integrity the important issue is cor-

rectness—incorrect data are both useless and potentially damaging, but we need to inves-

tigate how to gauge and ensure correctness. The availability consideration relates to both 

performance and structure: Combining databases not originally designed to be combined 

affects whether results can be obtained in a timely manner or even at all.
Privacy and SensitivityBecause the goal of data mining is summary results, not individual data items, you 
would not expect a problem with sensitivity of individual data items. Unfortunately, that 

is not true.Individual privacy can suffer from the same kinds of inference and aggregation 
issues we studied for databases. Because privacy, specifically protecting what a person 

considers private information, is an important topic that relates to many areas of com-

puter security, we study it in depth in Chapter 9.
Not only individual privacy is affected, however: Correlation by aggregation and 
inference can affect companies, organizations, and governments, too. Take, for exam-

ple, a problem involving Firestone tires and the Ford Explorer vehicle. In May 2000, the 

U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) found a high incidence 

of tire failure on Ford Explorers fitted with Firestone tires. In certain conditions the 

Firestone tire tread separated; in certain conditions the Ford Explorer tipped over, and 

when the tread separated, the Ford was more likely to tip over [PUB01]. Consumers had 

complained to both Ford and Firestone since shortly after the tire and vehicle combina-

tion was placed on the market in 1990, but problems began to rise after a design change 

in 1995. Both companies had some evidence of the problem, but the NHTSA review of 

combined data better showed the correlation. Maintaining data on products’ quality is a 

standard management practice. But the sensitivity of data in these databases would pre-

clude much sharing. Even if a trustworthy neutral party could be found to mine the data, 

the owners would be reasonably concerned for what might be revealed. A large number 

of failures of one product could show a potential market weakness, or a series of small 

amounts of data could reveal test marketing activities to outsiders.
Data mining can support analysis 
of security data.