502 Chapter 7  
Databasesat big data collection and data mining, a technology for deriving patterns from one or 
more databases. Data mining involves many of the security issues we raise in this chapter.
7.1 INTRODUCTION TO DATABASES
We begin by describing a database and defining terminology related to its use. We draw 

on examples from what is called the relational database because it is one of the most 

widely used types. However, the concepts described here apply to any type of database. 

We first define the basic concepts and then use them to discuss security concerns.
Concept of a DatabaseA database is a collection of data and a set of rules that organize the data by specifying 
certain relationships among the data. Through these rules, the user describes a 
logical 
format for the data. The data items are stored in a file, but the precise 
physical format of the file is of no concern to the user. A 
database administrator is a person who defines 
the rules that organize the data and also controls who should have access to what parts of 

the data. The user interacts with the database through a program called a 
database man-ager or a database management system (DBMS), informally known as a 
front end.
Components of DatabasesThe database file consists of 
records, 
each of which contains one related group of data. As 
shown in the example in Table 7-1, a record in a name and address file consists of one name 

and address. Each record contains fields 
or elements, the elementary data items them-selves. The fields in the name and address record are NAME, ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, 

and ZIP (where ZIP is the U.S. postal 

code). This database can be viewed 

as a two-dimensional table, where 

a record is a row and each field of a 

record is an element of the table.Not every database is easily represented as a single, compact table. The database in 
Figure 7-1 logically consists of three files with possibly different uses. These three files 

could be represented as one large table, but that depiction may not improve the utility 

of or access to the data.The logical structure of a database is called a schema. A particular user may have 
access to only part of the database, called a subschema. The overall schema of the 
A database is a collection of tables, each containing records having one or more 

fields or elements.TABLE 7-1 
Example of a DatabaseADAMS212 Market St.ColumbusOH43210
BENCHLY501 Union St.ChicagoIL60603

CARTER411 Elm St.ColumbusOH43210
