 Section 11.6  Ethical Issues in Computer Security 
747  noting that two people may legiti-
mately disagree on issues of ethics. 
We expect and accept disagree-

ment in such areas as politics and 

religion.However, in the scientific and technical fields, people expect to find unique, unam-
biguous, and unequivocal answers. In science, one answer must be correct or demon-

strable in some sense, and all other answers are wrong. Science has provided life with 

fundamental explanations. Ethics is rejected or misunderstood by some scientists 

because it is “soft,” meaning that it has no underlying framework or it does not depend 

on fundamental truths.One need only study the history of scientific discovery to see that science itself is 
founded largely on temporary truths or theories. For many years astronomers believed 

the earth was the center of the solar system. Ptolemy developed a complicated frame-

work of epicycles, orbits within orbits of the planets, to explain the inconsistency of 

observed periods of rotation. Eventually his theory was superseded by the Copernican 

model of planets that orbit the sun. Similarly, Einstein’s relativity theory opposed the 

traditional quantum basis of physics. Science is littered with theories that have fallen 

from favor as we learned or observed more and as new explanations were proposed. 

Scientists were not wrong when they proposed a theory later proven wrong; they drew 

the best conclusions they could from the available data. As each new theory is proposed, 

some people readily accept the new proposal, while others cling to the old.
But the basis of science is presumed to be “truth.” A statement is expected to be 
provably true, provably false, or unproven, but a statement can never be both true and 

false. Scientists are uncomfortable with ethics because ethics does not provide these 

clean distinctions. But in fact, drawing the best conclusions for the circumstances is not 

unlike choosing the best (ethical) course of action in a complex and debatable situation.
Worse, there is no higher authority of ethical truth. Two people may disagree on their 
opinion of the ethics of a situation, but there is no one to whom to appeal for a final 

determination of who is “right.” Conflicting answers do not deter one from considering 

ethical issues in computer security. Nor do they excuse us from making and defending 

ethical choices.Ethical ReasoningMost people make ethical judgments often, perhaps daily. (Is it better to buy from a 

hometown merchant or from a nationwide chain? Should I spend time with a volunteer 

organization or with my friends? Is it acceptable to release sensitive data to someone 

who might not have justification for but needs access to that data?) Because we all 

engage in ethical choice, we should clarify how we do this so that we can learn to apply 

the principles of ethics in professional situations, as we do in private life.
Study of ethics can yield two positive results. First, in situations in which we already 
know what is right and what is wrong, ethics should help us justify our choice. Second, 

if we do not know the ethical action to take in a situation, ethics can help us identify the 

issues involved so that we can make reasoned judgments.
More than one position may be ethically 

justifiable in any given situation.