   Exercises 
765  Only by recognizing and analyzing principles can you act consistently, thoughtfully, 
and responsibly.
CONCLUSIONIn this chapter we have presented information on both law and ethics as it applies to 

computer security. The law involving computer security is advancing rapidly, so by the 

time you read some of the points here, they may be out of date. Nevertheless, you can 

gain by knowing what the law said at a particular point in time.
Furthermore, many readers of this book are from countries other than the United 
States. We mention some laws from other countries, but obviously we cannot cover 

every law in every country. The laws in the United States are certainly not perfect, but 

they do resemble laws in other countries. So reading this chapter will give you a reason-

able basis for finding out what applies in your own country.
One thing that is universal, fortunately, is ethics. Not harming others, achieving the 
greatest good with the least harm, and respecting others’ rights apply around the world. 

Thus our analysis of the ethical issues in model situations should be valid for all readers.
Some readers discount laws and ethics as computer security protections, for a variety 
of reasons. We think as citizens, computer security professionals need to understand the 

power and limitations of the law. If the laws are not right, our readers should work to 

see the laws made better.
Our order of topics in this book has been from the user out, from programs to operat-ing systems and networks, big data and the cloud. We then addressed four issues that cut 

across all aspects of computer security: privacy, management, laws, and ethics.
In the next chapter we return to a topic introduced in Chapter 2: cryptography. As 
we described in that earlier chapter, cryptography is not for the faint of heart; it can use 

highly sophisticated and abstract mathematics. We did not want to go too deeply into 

the mathematics of the subject early in the book, because for many readers and practi-

tioners cryptography is a tool to use, not a discipline to master. In the next chapter we 

go slightly more deeply into that topic, although again certainly not enough to make our 

readers expert cryptologists. However, for readers wanting the next level of detail in the 

topic, we present a second pass at encryption.EXERCISES1. List the issues involved in the software vulnerability reporting argument. What are the techni-
cal issues? The psychological and sociological ones? The managerial ones? The economic 

ones? The ethical ones? Select a vulnerability reporting process that you think is appropriate 

and explain why it meets more requirements than any other process.
2. List the issues involved in the software reliability (correct functioning of a product pur-
chased) argument. What are the technical issues? The psychological/sociological ones? The 

managerial ones? The economic ones? The ethical ones? Select a policy on compensation for 

incorrect software you think is appropriate and explain why it meets more requirements than 

any other process.
