 Section 1.3  Harm 
21  Alan Cullison [CUL04], reports that he turned the computer over to the FBI. 
In his story published in 2004 in 
The Atlantic, he carefully avoids revealing 
anything he thinks might be sensitive.The disk contained over 1,000 documents, many of them encrypted 
with relatively weak encryption. Cullison found draft mission plans and 

white papers setting forth ideological and philosophical arguments for the 

attacks of 11 September 2001. Also found were copies of news stories on 

terrorist activities. Some of the found documents indicated that al Qaeda 

was not originally interested in chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons, 

but became interested after reading public news articles accusing al 

Qaeda of having those capabilities.Perhaps most unexpected were email messages of the kind one 
would find in a typical office: recommendations for promotions, justifica-

tions for petty cash expenditures, and arguments concerning budgets.
The computer appears to have been used by al Qaeda from 1999 to 
2001. Cullison notes that Afghanistan in late 2001 was a scene of chaos, 
and it is likely the laptop’s owner fled quickly, leaving the computer behind, 

where it fell into the hands of a secondhand goods merchant who did not 

know its contents.But this computer’s contents illustrate an important aspect of com-
puter security and confidentiality: We can never predict the time at which 

a security disaster will strike, and thus we must always be prepared to act 

immediately if it suddenly happens. If someone on television sneezes, you do not worry about the possibility of catching 
a cold. But if someone standing next to you sneezes, you may become concerned. In 

the next section we examine the harm that can come from the presence of a computer 

security threat on your own computer systems.
1.3 HARM
The negative consequence of an actualized threat is 
harm; we protect ourselves against 
threats in order to reduce or eliminate harm. We have already described many examples 

of computer harm: a stolen computer, modified or lost file, revealed private letter, or 

denied access to data. These events cause harm that we want to avoid.
In our earlier discussion of assets, we noted that value depends on owner or outsider 
perception and need. Some aspects of value are immeasurable, such as the value of the 

paper you need to submit to your professor tomorrow; if you lose the paper (that is, if 

its availability is lost), no amount of money will compensate you for it. Items on which 

you place little or no value might be more valuable to someone else; for example, the 

group photograph taken at last night’s party can reveal that your friend was not where 

he told his wife he would be. Even though it may be difficult to assign a specific num-

ber as the value of an asset, you can usually assign a value on a generic scale, such as 

moderate or minuscule or incredibly high, depending on the degree of harm that loss 

or damage to the object would cause. Or you can assign a value relative to other assets, 
