604 Chapter 9  
Privacyto audit data processing systems, investigate complaints brought by individuals, 
and enforce sanctions for noncompliance.This brief summary of the much longer law gives you a sense of the different, more 
comprehensive approach to privacy taken by the European Union. The E.U. data pro-

tection directive’s requirements apply to government, businesses, and other organiza-

tions that collect personal data. Since the original 1995 directive was published, the 

European Union has extended its coverage to telecommunications systems and made 

other changes to adapt to advances 

in technology. You can find the 

full directive and relevant deci-

sions at http://ec.europa.eu/justice/
data-protection/law/index_en.htm.
Privacy in Other CountriesOther countries, such as Japan, Australia, and Canada, have also passed laws protecting 
the privacy of personal data about individuals. The website at http://www.information 

shield.com/intprivacylaws.html provides links to these laws.
Conflicting LawsDifferent laws in different jurisdictions will inevitably clash. Relations between the 
European Union and the United States have been strained over privacy because the E.U. 

law forbids sharing data with companies or governments in countries whose privacy 

laws are not as strong as those of the E.U. (The United States and the European Union 

have agreed to a set of “safe harbor” principles that let U.S. companies trade with Euro-

pean countries in spite of their not meeting all European privacy laws.) In Sidebar 9-4 

you can see how these different laws can affect commerce and, ultimately, diplomatic 

relations.The European Privacy Directive provides 

strong protection for privacy rights, 

binding on governments, businesses, 

and other organizations.SIDEBAR 9-4 When Privacy Principles Clash
Privacy is serious business. Commerce, travel, or communication can stop 
when data are to be shared among organizations or countries with differ-

ent privacy principles. For example, in trying to secure its borders after the 

11 September 2001 attacks, the United States created a program to screen 

airline passengers for possible terrorist links. The program uses informa-

tion in the Passenger Name Record (PNR): the data collected by airlines 

when you book a flight from one place to another. The PNR includes 34 

categories of information: not only your name and flight details but also your 

telephone number, credit card information, meal preferences, address, and 

more. Because Europeans constitute the largest group of visitors to the 

United States (13.25 million in 2013, according to Statista.com), the Ameri-

cans asked European airlines to supply PNR data within 15 minutes of a 

plane’s departure for the United States.
