 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
407  in the SYN_RECV queue to try to identify the attacker. Second, the attacker wants 
to make the malicious SYN packets indistinguishable from legitimate SYN packets to 

establish real connections. Choosing a different (spoofed) source address for each one 

makes them unique, as ordinary traffic would be. A SYN–ACK packet to a nonexistent 

address results in an ICMP Destination Unreachable response, but this is not the ACK 

for which the TCP connection is waiting. (TCP and ICMP are different protocol suites, 

so an ICMP reply does not necessarily get back to the sender’s TCP handler.)
These attacks misuse legitimate features of network protocols to overwhelm the vic-
tim, but the features cannot be disabled because they have necessary purposes within 

the protocol suite. Overwhelming network capacity is not the only way to deny service, 

however. In the next section we examine attacks that exhaust other available resources.
Network Flooding by Resource Exhaustion
A computer supports multiple applications by dividing time among applications; oper-

ating systems research has helped people design effective algorithms for deciding how 

much (what proportion of) processing time to allocate to which applications. Switch-

ing from one application to another, called 
context switching, requires time and mem-ory because the current state of the application is saved and the previous state of the 

next application is reloaded. Register values must be written to memory, outstanding 

asynchronous activities must be completed, dropped or recorded, and memory must be 

preserved or freed. If there are few active processes and few context switches, the over-

head for each switch is negligible, but as the number of active processes increases, the 

proportion of time spent in context switching also grows, which means the proportion 

of time for actual computing decreases. With too many processes, a system can enter 

a state called thrashing, in which its performance fails because of nearly continuous 
context switching.
Time is not the only resource that can be exhausted. Buffers for incoming email can 
be overwhelmed by a sudden flood of incoming messages. Logging and log files can be 

swamped by a large number of errors or fault conditions that must be handled. Buffers 

for reassembling fragmented communications can also be exhausted.
Even identification and authentication can become vulnerable in an exhaustion 
attack. To protect against automated guessing attacks, some authentication services 

temporarily or permanently disable account access after some number, such as three 

or five, of failed login attempts. Thus, a malicious user can block access by repeatedly 

failing to log in as the victim.
IP Fragmentation: Teardrop
The teardrop
 attack misuses a feature ironically intended to improve network com-
munication. A network IP datagram is a variable-length object. To support different 

applications and conditions, the datagram protocol permits a single data unit to be frag-
mented, that is, broken into pieces and transmitted separately. Each fragment indicates 

its length and relative position within the data unit. The receiving end reassembles the 

fragments into a single data unit.