 Section 11.7  Incident Analysis with Ethics 
755  presenting several competing arguments that might be used to support positions in this 
case. As described in the previous section, legal controls for secrecy of programs can be 

complicated, time consuming, and expensive to apply. In this study we search for indi-

vidual ethical controls that can prevent the need to appeal to the legal system.
The IncidentGreg is a programmer working for a large aerospace firm, Star Computers, which works 
on many government contracts; Cathy is Greg’s supervisor. Greg is assigned to program 

various kinds of simulations.
To improve his programming abilities, Greg writes some programming tools, such as 
a cross-reference facility and a program that automatically extracts documentation from 

source code. These are not assigned tasks for Greg; he writes them independently and 

uses them at work, but he does not tell anyone about them. Greg has written them in the 

evenings, at home, on his personal computer.
Greg decides to market these programming aids by himself. When Star’s manage-
ment hears of this, Cathy is instructed to tell Greg that he has no right to market these 

products since, when he was employed, he signed a form stating that all inventions 

become the property of the company. Cathy does not agree with this position because 

she knows that Greg has done this work on his own. She reluctantly tells Greg that he 

cannot market these products. She also asks Greg for a copy of the products.
Cathy quits working for Star and takes a supervisory position with Purple Comput-
ers, a competitor of Star. She takes with her a copy of Greg’s products and distrib-

utes it to the people who work with her. These products are so successful that they 

substantially improve the effectiveness of her employees, and Cathy is praised by her 

management and receives a healthy bonus. Greg hears of this, and contacts Cathy, who 

contends that because the product was determined to belong to Star and because Star 

worked largely on government funding, the products were really in the public domain 

and therefore they belonged to no one in particular.
AnalysisThis story certainly has major legal implications. Virtually everyone could sue every-
one else and, depending on the amount they are willing to spend on legal expenses, 

they could keep the cases in the courts for several years. Probably no judgment would 

satisfy all.Let us set aside the legal aspects and look at the ethical issues. We want to determine 
who might have done what, and what changes might have been possible to prevent a 

tangle for the courts to unscramble.First, let us explore the principles involved.
• Rights. What are the respective rights of Greg, Cathy, Star, and Purple?
• Basis. What gives Greg, Cathy, Star, and Purple those rights? What principles of 
fair play, business, property rights, and so forth are involved in this case?
• Priority. 
Which of these principles are inferior to which others? Which ones take 
precedence? (Note that it may be impossible to compare two different rights, so 
