 Section 4.1  Browser Attacks 
243  • Malicious software can undermine authentication by eavesdropping on (inter-
cepting) the authentication data and allowing it to be reused later. Well-placed 

attack code can also wait until a user has completed authentication and then 

interfere with the content of the authenticated session.• Each side of a computer interchange needs assurance of the authentic identity 
of the opposing side. This is true for human-to-computer interactions as well as 

for computer-to-human.
The specific situation of man-in-the-middle attacks gives us some interesting coun-
termeasures to apply for identification and authentication.
Successful Identification and AuthenticationAppealing to everyday human activity gives some useful countermeasures for attacks 
against identification and authentication.
Shared Secret Banks and credit card companies struggle to find new ways to make sure the holder of 

a credit card number is authentic. The first secret was mother’s maiden name, which is 

something a bank might have asked when someone opened an account. However, when 

all financial institutions started to use this same secret, it was no longer as secret. Next, 

credit card companies moved to a secret verification number imprinted on a credit card 

to prove the person giving the card number also possessed the card. Again, overuse is 

reducing the usefulness of this authenticator. Now, financial institutions are asking new 

customers to file the answers to questions presumably only the right person will know. 

Street on which you grew up, first school attended, and model of first car are becoming 

popular, perhaps too popular. As long as different places use different questions and the 

answers are not easily derived, these measures can confirm authentication.
I am the computerof the great andpowerful warlordand sultan ofFrangipane.And I am thecomputer complex ofthe multinational mega-conglomerateUniversal Ubercorp.FIGURE 4-6 Without Continuous Authentication Neither End Can Trust the Other
