 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
629  has been applied to everything from keystroke loggers, to advertising applications 
that track users’ web browsing, to web cookies, to programs designed to help provide 

security patches directly to users. More recently, there has been particular attention 

paid to a variety of applications that piggyback on peer-to-peer file-sharing software 

and other free downloads as a way to gain access to people’s computers.” The CDT 

report discusses in detail “other similar applications, which have increasingly been the 

focus of legislative and regulatory proposals. Many of these applications represent a 

significant privacy threat, but in our view the larger concerns raised by these programs 

are transparency and user control, 

problems sometimes overlooked in 

discussions about the issue and to a 
certain extent obscured by the term 

‘spyware’ itself.”
The objectives of general spyware can extend to identity theft and other criminal 
activity. In addition to the privacy impact, keystroke loggers and spyware sometimes 

adversely affect a computing system. Not always written or tested carefully, spyware 

can interfere with other legitimate programs. Also, machines infected with spyware 

often have several different pieces of spyware that can conflict with each other, causing 

a serious impact on performance.Another common characteristic of many kinds of spyware is the difficulty of remov-
ing it. For one spyware product, Altnet, removal involves at least twelve steps, including 

locating files in numerous system folders [CDT09].
HijackersAnother category of spyware is software that hijacks a program installed for a different 
purpose. For example, file-sharing software is typically used to share copies of music 

or movie files. An ABC News program in 2006 [ABC06] reported that taxpayers dis-

covered their tax returns on the Internet after the taxpayers used a file-sharing pro-

gram. Music-sharing services such as KaZaa (no longer in business) and Morpheus 

allowed users to offer part of their stored files to other users. According to the Center for 

Democracy and Technology [CDT03], when a user installed KaZaa, a second program, 

Altnet, was also installed. The documentation for Altnet said it would make available 

unused computing power on the user’s machine to unspecified business partners. The 

license for Altnet grants Altnet the right to access and use unused computing power and 

storage. Searching for “Altnet spyware” in a search engine reveals offers for dozens of 

products that claim to remove Altnet, as well as dozens of blog entries describing the 

difficulty of doing so.
The privacy issue for a service such as Altnet is that even if a user authorizes use of 
spare computing power or sharing or files or other resources, there may be no control 

over access to other sensitive data on the user’s computer.
Adware
Adware displays selected advertisements in pop-up windows or in the main browser 
window. The ad’s topics and characteristics are selected according to the user’s 
Spyware collects and reports activity by 

web users.