384 Chapter 6  
NetworksThere are threats at each of these points. In step 1, anyone can pick up and reply to a 
broadcast beacon. In step 2, the authentication is not rigorous; in basic WiFi mode the 

access point accepts any device, without authentication. In step 3, any access point can 

accept an association with any device. We can counter these attacks of unauthorized 

access at any of the three steps.
WiFi Protocol Weaknesses
The wireless access protocol has built-in weaknesses that can harm security. Obviously, 
wireless communication is more exposed than wired communication because of the 

lack of physical protection. For whatever reason, the initial designers of the interna-

tional wireless communication protocols, the 802.11 suite, created situations that left 
wireless communications vulnerable, as we now describe.
Picking Up the BeaconA client and an access point engage in the authentication and association handshake to 
locate each other. Essentially the client says, “I am looking to connect to access point 

S” and the access point says, “I am access point S; I accept your request to connect.” 

The order of these two steps is important. In what is called 
open mode, an access 
point continually broadcasts its appeal in its beacon, indicating that it is open for the 
next step in establishing a connection. 
Closed or 
stealth mode, also known as 
SSID cloaking, reverses the order of the 
steps: The client must first send a 

signal seeking an access point with 
a particular SSID before the access 
point responds to that one query 

with an invitation to connect. These 

two modes of operation are shown 

in Figure 6-17.Operating in closed mode would seem to be a successful way to prevent unauthor-
ized access: If you do not know the SSID, you cannot request a connection. However, 

closed mode leaves the 
client exposed. In open mode, the client is quiet, monitoring 
beacons, until it finds one to which it wants to connect; thus, the client is not constantly 

visible. In open mode, however, the client effectively becomes a beacon, sending a con-

tinuing series of messages saying, in essence, “I am MAC address mmm, looking for 

SSID sss. Are you sss?” From those messages a rogue host can learn the expected val-

ues needed to impersonate an access point to which the client hopes to connect.SSID in All FramesBroadcasting the desired SSID in closed mode reveals the identity of a sought-after 
access point. Worse, in both closed and open modes, even after the initial handshake, all 

subsequent management and data frames contain this same SSID, so sniffing any one 

of these frames reveals the SSID. Thus, anyone who sniffs the SSID can save the SSID 

(which is seldom changed in practice) to use later. A snooper can reasonably guess that 

the client will attempt to connect to this same access point again. Thus, the rogue has 

the information needed to imitate either the client or the access point in the future.In open mode an access point 
continually broadcasts its SSID; in closed 

mode a client continually broadcasts a 

request to connect to a given SSID from 

a given MAC address.
