 Section 12.1  Cryptology 
775  One-Time PadsA one-time pad is sometimes considered the perfect cipher. It is a pure substitution 
cipher. The name comes from an encryption method in which a large, nonrepeating set 

of keys is written on sheets of paper, glued together into a pad. For example, if the keys 

are 20 characters long and a sender must transmit a message 300 characters in length, 
the sender would tear off the next 15 pages of keys. The sender would write the key 

letters one at a time above the letters of the plaintext and encipher each plaintext with a 

prearranged substitution involving each plaintext letter and the key value written above 

it. The sender would then destroy the used keys.
For the encryption to work, the receiver needs a pad identical to that of the sender. 
Upon receiving a message, the receiver takes the appropriate number of keys and deci-

phers the message as if it were a plain substitution with a long key. Essentially, this 

algorithm gives the effect of a key as long as the number of characters in the pad.
The one-time pad method has two problems: the need for absolute synchronization 
between sender and receiver, and the need for an unlimited number of keys. Although 

generating a large number of random keys is no problem, printing, distributing, storing, 

and accounting for such keys are problems.
Long Random Number SequencesA close approximation of a one-time pad for use on computers is a random number gen-
erator. In fact, computer random numbers are not random; they really form a sequence 

with a very long period (that is, they go for a long time before repeating the sequence). 

In practice, a generator with a long period can be acceptable for a limited amount of 
time or plaintext.
To use a random number generator, the sender with a 300-character message would 
interrogate the computer for the next 300 random numbers and use one number to enci-

pher each character of the plaintext message.
The Vernam Cipher
The Vernam cipher
 is a type of one-time pad devised by Gilbert Vernam for AT&T. 
The Vernam cipher is immune from most cryptanalytic attacks. The basic encryption 

involves an arbitrarily long nonrepeating sequence of numbers that are combined with 

the plaintext. Vernam’s invention used an arbitrarily long punched paper tape that fed 

into a teletype machine. The tape contained random numbers that were combined with 

characters typed into the teletype. The sequence of random numbers had no repeats, and 

each tape was used only once. As long as the key tape does not repeat or is not reused, 

this type of cipher is immune from cryptanalytic attack because the available ciphertext 

does not display the pattern of the key. A model of this process is shown in Figure 12-1.
Book CiphersAnother source of supposedly “random” numbers is any book, piece of music, or other 
object of which the structure can be analyzed. Both the sender and receiver need access 
