 Section 7.4  Database Disclosure 
519  Several factors can make data sensitive.
• Inherently sensitive. 
The value itself may be so revealing that it is sensitive. 
Examples are the locations of defensive missiles or the median income of bar-

bers in a town with only one barber.
• From a sensitive source. 
The source of the data may indicate a need for confi-
dentiality. An example is information from an informer whose identity would be 

compromised if the information were disclosed.• Declared sensitive. 
The database administrator or the owner of the data may 
have declared the data to be sensitive. Examples are classified military data or 

the name of the anonymous donor of a piece of art.
• Part of a 
sensitive attribute 
or record
. In a database, an entire attribute or record 
may be classified as sensitive. Examples are the salary attribute of a personnel 

database or a record describing a secret space mission.• Sensitive 
in relation to previously disclosed information
. Some data become 
sensitive in the presence of other data. For example, the longitude coordinate of 

a secret gold mine reveals little, but the longitude coordinate in conjunction with 

the latitude coordinate pinpoints the mine.All of these factors must be con-
sidered when the sensitivity of the 

data is being determined.Types of Disclosures
We all know that some data are sensitive. However, sometimes even characteristics of 

the data are sensitive. In this section, we see that even descriptive information about 

data (such as their existence or whether they have an element that is nonzero) is a form 

of disclosure.Exact DataThe most serious disclosure is the exact value
 of a sensitive data item itself. The user 
may know that sensitive data are being requested, or the user may request general data 

without knowing that some of it is sensitive. A faulty database manager may even 

deliver sensitive data by accident, without the user’s having requested it. In all these 

cases, the result is the same: The security of the sensitive data has been breached.
TABLE 7-6 
Example DatabaseNameSexRaceAidFinesDrugsDorm
AdamsMC500045.1Holmes
BaileyMB0 0.0Grey
Databases protect sensitive data by 
controlling direct or indirect access to 

the data.