326 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsUnited States. The Orange Book became a U.S. Department of Defense standard, and a 
regulation called for “C2 by 92,” a modest level of trustworthiness for all new Defense 

Department computers by 1992. That mandate was never enforced, and for a while it 

seemed as though the effort had achieved nothing.
Trusted Systems Today
Significant thought and money was invested during the 1980s and 1990s on design and 
implementation of trusted systems. Research and development projects such as PSOS 

[NEU80], KSOS [MCC79], KVM [GOL77], SCOMP [FRA83], Multics [SAL74], 

Trusted Xenix, Trusted Mach [BRA88], GEMSOS [NCS95], and Vax VMM [KAR90] 

helped establish the principles of high-assurance, security-enforcing trusted systems. Today, however, few security people have ever heard of these systems, let alone 
know what they involve. These projects have disappeared from the security scene for 

at least two reasons: First, the market for high-assurance, security-enforcing operating 

systems is quite limited. Even users dealing with sensitive data, such as highly classi-

fied military or diplomatic information, found they preferred or even needed functional-

ity, performance, and usability more than security. Second, these systems were sidelines 

to manufacturers’ major system offerings, and maintaining such separate product lines 

became untenable. By now, as Sidebar 5-6 describes, even the word “trust” has lost 

some of its value.
Fortunately, however, the lessons of trusted systems design endure. Design prin-
ciples such as least privilege and separation; features such as trusted path, secure 

startup, and object reuse; and concepts such as the security kernel and reference moni-

tor live on today. For example, today’s firewall, the widely used network security prod-

uct (which we cover in the next chapter), is an instantiation of the reference monitor 

concept, and Microsoft’s Trustworthy Computing (described in Chapter 3) is heavily 

based on trusted systems principles. Thus, we encourage you to adopt the historian’s 

philosophy that understanding the past can help you appreciate the present and prepare 

for the future. SIDEBAR 5-6 Can Trust Be Certified?
Is it possible to rely on a service or search engine to verify that an online 
site is trustworthy? TRUSTe is a non-profit organization, founded in 1997 

by privacy advocates, that uses its TRUSTe certification to assure users 

that a site will protect the user’s privacy. In 2006, TRUSTe also introduced 

a “trusted download program,” designed to confirm to users that software 

downloaded from a site is neither adware nor spyware. 
Edelman [EDE06] investigated the trustworthiness of sites holding 
a TRUSTe certification. Dismayingly, he found that TRUSTe-certified sites 

were twice as untrustworthy as uncertified sites. Similarly, he found that 

relying on well-known and trusted search engines also increases the likeli-

hood of being directed to an untrustworthy site.
In 2008, Edelman found that the web site coupons.com stored data 
in deceptive file names and registry entries designed to look like part of 

Windows. The files had names such as c:\windows\WindowsShellOld.