 Section 12.7  Conclusion 
811  ImplementationThe theory of quantum cryptography is solid, but some technical difficulties still must 
be worked out before the scheme can be put into practice. To implement quantum cryp-

tography, we need a source of photons randomly but detectably oriented (for the sender) 

and a means of filtering the received photons reliably. A photon gun can fire photons on 

demand. Several different research teams are working to develop photon guns for cryp-

tography, but so far none has succeeded. The best current technology involves pulsed 

lasers, but here, too, there is a problem. Occasionally the laser emits not one but two 

photons, which disturbs the pattern of reception and transmission. However, with error 

correcting codes on the stream of bits, it is relatively easy to detect and correct a few 

erroneous bits.On the receiving side, too, there are problems. One device is subject to catastrophic 
failure in which it emits a current surge. Although this surge is easily detected, it 

requires the device to be reset, which takes time.
Experimental implementations of quantum cryptography are still in the laboratories. The U.K. Defence Evaluation and Research Agency in Malvern, England, demonstrated 

a successful communication through the atmosphere over a distance of 2 km, and the 

U.S. Los Alamos National Laboratory is testing a portable device that can operate over 

45 km on a clear night. The U.S. National Institute for Standards and Technology has 

demonstrated a quantum cryptographic system that operates over one kilometer over 

glass fiber at a rate of four megabits per second. BBN Communications and Harvard 

University have activated a joint network secured by quantum encryption. The network 

has six servers and covers a distance of ten kilometers. Reliable communications up 

to 20 kilometers have been achieved, and some scientists expect to be able to cover 

50 kilometers reliably in the near future. (See [ELL04] for a discussion of the potential 
of quantum cryptography.)
These results show significant progress as quantum cryptography moves from the 
research bench to the prototype lab. Although still not ready for widespread public 

adoption, quantum cryptography is becoming a real possibility for commercial use 

within the next decade.
12.7 CONCLUSION
As we said at the beginning of this chapter, cryptography is a highly specialized area 

of study. Even in this chapter of details, we have presented only the top layer of this 

rich field.
Unlike the other chapters of this book, this chapter includes no exercises. Problems 
in code breaking rapidly become difficult. Exercises involving hand calculation of any 

of the ciphers in this chapter are exhausting and tedious; the educational value of those 

problems is debatable. And questions asking you to find a flaw in one algorithm or 

invent a new algorithm to do something are the subjects of graduate papers, not exer-

cises in a course. We know our readers can answer questions of rote memorization, and 

anything other than that is too much work.
