 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
97  strength roughly equivalent to a 112-bit key (because the double DES attack defeats the 
strength of one of the three keys, but it has no effect on the third key).
A minor variation of triple DES, which some people also confusingly call triple 
DES, is C  E(k1, D(k2, E(k1,m))). That is, you encrypt with one key, decrypt with 
a second, and encrypt with the first again. This version requires only two keys. (The 

second decrypt step also makes this process work for single encryptions with one key: 

The decryption cancels the first encryption, so the net result is one encryption. The 

encrypt–decrypt–encrypt form is handy because one algorithm can produce results for 
both conventional single-key DES and the more secure two-key method.) This two-key, 

three-step version is subject to another tricky attack, so its strength is rated at only about 

80 bits. Still, 80 bits is beyond reasonable cracking capability for current hardware.
In summary, ordinary DES has a key space of 56 bits, double DES is scarcely better, 
but two-key triple DES gives an effective length of 80 bits, and three-key triple DES 

gives a strength of 112 bits. Remember why we are so fixated on key size: If no other 

way succeeds, the attacker can always try all possible keys. A longer key means signifi-

cantly more work for this attack to bear fruit, with the work factor doubling for each 

additional bit in key length. Now, roughly a half century after DES was created, a 56-bit 

key is inadequate for any serious confidentiality, but 80- and 112-bit effective key sizes 

afford reasonable security. We summarize these forms of DES in Table 2-11.
Security of DESSince it was first announced, DES has been controversial. Many researchers have ques-
tioned the security it provides. Because of its association with the U.S. government, 

specifically the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) that made certain unexplained 

changes between what IBM proposed and what the NBS actually published, some peo-
ple have suspected that the algorithm was somehow weakened, to allow the government 
TABLE 2-11 
Forms of DES
FormOperationPropertiesStrength
DESEncrypt with one key56-bit keyInadequate for high-security 
applications by today’s 

computing capabilitiesDouble DESEncrypt with first key; then 
encrypt result with second key
Two 56-bit keysOnly doubles strength of  
56-bit key version
Two-key 
triple DESEncrypt with first key, then 
encrypt (or decrypt) result 
with second key, then encrypt 

result with first key (E-D-E)
Two 56-bit keysGives strength equivalent 
to about 80-bit key (about 

16 million times as strong as 
56-bit version)
Three-key 
triple DESEncrypt with first key, then 
encrypt or decrypt result with 
second key, then encrypt result 

with third key (E-E-E)
Three 56-bit keysGives strength equivalent to 
about 112-bit key about 72 

quintillion (72*1015) times as strong as 56-bit version
