556 Chapter 8  
Cloud ComputingAnother consideration is whether your systems are appropriate for public clouds. For 
instance, if you will have constant, high-bandwidth data transfers between your local 

servers and your cloud, a private cloud may make more sense. A private or community 

cloud may also make sense if your data or functions have very strict confidentiality or 

integrity requirements, since those cloud deployment models mitigate the threat from 

sharing infrastructure with potential adversaries. You also may be able to use an in-

between option, a sort of “community in the public” cloud, such as Amazon’s U.S. 

GovCloud. GovCloud is hosted in Amazon’s data centers, but it is only open to U.S. 

government customers and is built to meet those customers’ security and regulatory 

requirements. As long as you can identify other customers with similar needs, there is 

infinite potential to customize cloud offerings.
Switching Cloud Providers
One concern that is often ignored when selecting cloud providers is 
vendor lock-in
. Vendor lock-in occurs when customers must continue buying a certain type of product 

from the same vendor they have already been using because the upfront cost of migrat-

ing to a different vendor’s product line would be significantly higher than the short-

term cost of continuing with the existing vendor. This situation most commonly occurs 

because of incompatibility between vendors. For example, imagine that you have an 

iPhone and that you’ve spent $1,000 on iPhone apps. Now imagine you are considering 

switching to an Android phone. Your iPhone apps aren’t compatible with Android, so to 

switch, you’ll have to spend another $1,000 to buy new copies of equivalent apps. On 

top of that, because the iPhone is so tied into other Apple products, you may find your-

self needing to replace an iPad and a MacBook to achieve the same functionality you 

had before. As a result, switching 

from one phone vendor to another 

may effectively cost thousands of 

dollars, or many times the price of 

the actual phone.When you are running a business that relies on cloud services, migrating between 
service providers can be expensive. Unfortunately, this can become an important secu-

rity issue because many potential security- and reliability-related events might drive a 

change in providers:
• Your provider is shown to have a major security vulnerability that cannot be 
easily repaired.• Your provider changes its features or API specification so as to no longer be 
compatible with your requirements.• Your provider is purchased by another company that is somehow incompatible 
with your needs, such as a competitor of yours.• Your provider moves its operations to a foreign country where you are prohib-
ited from maintaining your data.• Your provider goes out of business.
Vendor lock-in inhibits your switching 
providers.
