 Section 9.1  Privacy Concepts 
591  2 terabytes (2000 GB).” To put these 
numbers in perspective, consider that 

scientists estimate the capacity of the 

human brain to be between one tera-
byte and one petabyte. 
At the same time that our ability to store data is growing, so is the amount of data 
we want to be able to store. IBM tells us that 2.5 exabytes of new data are created 

every day. That statistic is stunning; 

it means “that 90% of the data in the 

world today has been created in the 

last two years alone.” (http://www-

01.ibm.com/software/data/bigdata/

what-is-big-data.html) The San Diego Supercomputer Center has online storage of one petabyte and offline 
archives of seven petabytes, and estimates of Google’s stored data are also in multiple-

petabyte range. Whereas physical space limited storing (and locating) massive amounts 

of printed data, electronic data take little space relative to hard copy.
Storageservers.com (http://storageservers.wordpress.com/2013/07/17/facts-and-
stats-of-worlds-largest-data-centers/) estimates the following capacities and usage at 

familiar sites:
• Google had 17 data centers in 2014, accounting for 0.01 percent of the world’s 
total energy usage.
• Facebook servers process approximately 2.4 billion pieces of content and 
750 terabytes of data every day, and its users access around 7 petabytes of photo 

storage every month.
• Amazon’s servers have more than 17 million monthly visitors who access 
410 terabytes of data from its platform. “Around 30 million of Amazon users 

stream around 40 petabytes of videos per month.”
• Microsoft has over a billion users and over 100,000 servers.
We seem never to throw away data; we just move it to slower secondary media or 
buy more storage.
Notice and ConsentWhere do all these bytes come from? Although some are from public and commer-
cial sources (such as newspapers, web pages, digital audio, and video recordings) and 

others are from intentional data transfers (for example, tax returns, a statement to the 

police after an accident, readers’ survey forms, school papers), still others are collected 

without announcement. Telephone companies record the date, time, duration, source, 

and destination of each telephone call. ISPs track sites visited. Some sites keep the IP 

address of each visitor to the site (although IP address is usually not unique to a specific 

individual). The user is not necessarily aware of this third category of data collection 

and thus cannot be said to have given informed consent to the collection.
Capacities of computer storage devices 
continue to grow, driving the cost per 

byte down.Availability of massive, inexpensive 

storage encourages (or does not 
discourage) collecting and saving data.