4 Chapter 1  
Introductionor sometimes as the computer. And because processors are embedded in so many 
devices, we also need to think about such variations as mobile phones, implanted pace-

makers, heating controllers, and automobiles. Even if the primary purpose of the device 

is not computing, the device’s embedded computer can be involved in security incidents 

and represents an asset worthy of protection.
Values of Assets
After identifying the assets to protect, we next determine their value. We make value-

based decisions frequently, even when we are not aware of them. For example, when 

you go for a swim you can leave a bottle of water and a towel on the beach, but not your 

wallet or cell phone. The difference relates to the value of the assets.
The value of an asset depends on the asset owner’s or user’s perspective, and it may 
be independent of monetary cost, as shown in Figure 1-3. Your photo of your sister, 

worth only a few cents in terms of paper and ink, may have high value to you and no 

value to your roommate. Other items’ value depends on replacement cost; some com-

puter data are difficult or impossible to replace. For example, that photo of you and your 

friends at a party may have cost you nothing, but it is invaluable because there is no 

other copy. On the other hand, the DVD of your favorite film may have cost a signifi-

cant portion of your take-home pay, 

but you can buy another one if the 

DVD is stolen or corrupted. Simi-

larly, timing has bearing on asset 
Off the shelf;
easily replaceableUnique; irreplaceableHardware:•   Computer•   Devices (disk
     drives, memory,

    printer)

•   Network gear Software:•   Operating system•   Utilities (antivirus)
•   Commercial
    applications (word

    processing, photo

    editing)
•  Individual
     applications
Data:•   Documents•   Photos
•  Music, videos

•   Email
•   Class projectsFIGURE 1-3 Values of Assets
Assets’ values are personal, time 

dependent, and often imprecise.
