 Section 10.1  Security Planning 
653  The requirements should address all aspects of security: confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability. They should also be reviewed to make sure that they are of appropriate 

strength and quality. In particular, we should make sure that the requirements have these 

characteristics:• Correctness
: Are the requirements understandable? Are they stated without 
error?• Consistency: Are there any conflicting or ambiguous requirements?
• Completeness: Are all possible situations addressed by the requirements?
• Realism: Is it possible to implement what the requirements mandate?• Need: Are the requirements unnecessarily restrictive?
• Verifiability
: Can tests be written to demonstrate conclusively and objectively 
that the requirements have been met? Can the system or its functionality be 

measured in some way that will assess the degree to which the requirements 

are met?• Traceability
: Can each requirement be traced to the functions and data related to it so that changes in a requirement can lead to easy reevaluation?
The requirements may then be constrained by budget, schedule, performance, poli-
cies, governmental regulations, and more. Given the requirements and constraints, 

developers then choose appropriate controls.
Recommended Controls
Security requirements lay out the system’s needs in terms of what should be protected. 
The security plan must also recommend what controls should be incorporated into the 
system to meet those requirements. Throughout this book you have seen many exam-

ples of controls, so we need not review them here. As we discuss later in this chapter, 

we can use risk analysis to create a map from vulnerabilities to controls. The mapping 

tells us how the system will meet the security requirements. That is, the recommended 

controls address implementation issues: how the system will be designed and developed 

to meet stated security requirements.Responsibility for ImplementationA section of the security plan will identify which people (usually listed as organizational 
titles, such as Head of Human Relations or the Network Security Administrator on duty) 

are responsible for implementing the security requirements. This documentation assists 

those who must coordinate their individual responsibilities with those of other develop-

ers. At the same time, the plan makes explicit who is accountable should some require-

ment not be met or some vulnerability not be addressed. That is, the plan notes who 

is responsible for implementing 

controls when a new vulnerability 

is discovered or a new kind of asset 

is introduced. (But see Sidebar 10-1 
on who is responsible.)A security plan documents who is 
responsible for implementing security. 

No one responsible implies no action.
