 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
179  The Morris worm of 1988 infected only 3,000 computers, but those computers con-
stituted a significant proportion, perhaps as much as half, of what was then the Internet. 

The IloveYou worm (transmitted in an email message with the alluring subject line  

“I Love You”) is estimated to have infected 100,000 servers; the security firm Message 

Labs estimated that, at the attack’s height, 1 email of every 28 transmitted worldwide 

was an infection from the worm. Code Red is believed to have affected close to 3 mil-

lion hosts. By some estimates, the Conficker worms (several strains) control a network 

of 1.5 million compromised and unrepaired hosts under the worms’ author’s control 

[MAR09]. Costs of recovery from major infections like these typically exceed $1 mil-

lion US. Thus, computer users and society in general bear a heavy cost for dealing with 

malware.
Damage Estimates How do you determine the cost or damage of any computer security incident? The prob-

lem is similar to the question of determining the cost of a complex disaster such as a 

building collapse, earthquake, oil spill, or personal injury. Unfortunately, translating 

harm into money is difficult, in computer security and other domains.
The first step is to enumerate the losses. Some will be tangibles, such as damaged 
equipment. Other losses include lost or damaged data that must be re-created or repaired, 
and degradation of service in which it takes an employee twice as long to perform a 

task. Costs also arise in investigat-

ing the extent of damage. (Which 

programs and data are affected and 

which archived versions are safe to 

reload?) Then there are intangibles 

and unmeasurables such as loss of 

customers or damage to reputation.You must determine a fair value for each thing lost. Damaged hardware or software 
is easy if there is a price to obtain a replacement. For damaged data, you must estimate 

the cost of staff time to recover, re-create, or repair the data, including the time to deter-

mine what is and is not damaged. Loss of customers can be estimated from the differ-

ence between number of customers before and after an incident; you can price the loss 
from the average profit per customer. Harm to reputation is a real loss, but extremely 

difficult to price fairly. As we saw when exploring risk management, people’s percep-

tions of risk affect the way they estimate the impact of an attack. So their estimates will 

vary for the value of loss of a human’s life or damage to reputation.
Knowing the losses and their approximate cost, you can compute the total cost of 
an incident. But as you can easily see, determining what to include as losses and valu-

ing them fairly can be subjective and imprecise. Subjective and imprecise do not mean 

invalid; they just indicate significant room for variation. You can understand, therefore, 

why there can be orders of magnitude differences in damage estimates for recovering 

from a security incident. For example, estimates of damage from Code Red range from 

$500 million to $2.6 billion, and one estimate of the damage from Conficker, for which 

9 to 15 million systems were repaired (plus 1.5 million not yet cleaned of the infection), 
was $9.2 billion, or roughly $1,000 per system [DAN09].
Estimating the cost of an incident is 
hard. That does not mean the cost 

is zero or insignificant, just hard to 

determine.