 Section 11.7  Incident Analysis with Ethics 
763  ExperimentIn June 2014 researchers published a paper [KRA14] reporting on this study: For one 
week in January 2011, researchers manipulated news stories sent to 689,003 Facebook 

users. The subjects were divided into four groups, one of which received a news feed 

with some positive stories omitted (the “positively reduced group”), one with some 

negative stories omitted (the “negatively reduced group”), and two control groups. The 

study’s authors found the positively reduced group were less likely to use positive terms 

and more likely to use negative terms when corresponding with their friends; the nega-

tively reduced group had the opposite finding, as one might expect. In both cases, the 

difference between a reduced group and its control was small.
The experimenters used reduced news feeds as a positive or negative force of the 
Internet and use of positive or negative terms as an indicator of mood. Thus, roughly 

speaking, the researchers found that a more positive Internet puts people in a more 

positive mood, and conversely, they conclude that “emotions can spread throughout a 

network, [but] the effect sizes from the manipulations are small.”
Experimental ConditionsThe individuals involved in the study were unaware that an experiment was being done 
(nor have they been told to date). They were not asked if they wanted to participate. 

The researchers claim that the participants in the reduced feed groups were not being 
deprived of news, because they could still find the withheld stories from their friends’ 

news feeds (although being unaware they were missing certain news items, these sub-

jects would have had no reason to search friends’ feeds for other news). The experiment 

went on for one week only. The count of positive or negative terms in users’ comments 

was calculated entirely by software, so the researchers had no way to determine content 

of posts of any individual or even of the entire group.
Informed ConsentA nonnegotiable condition of U.S. government-funded research is informed consent 
and opt-out, called the “Common Rule.” Subjects of an experiment have the right to 

know they are part of an experiment and to choose not to participate if they so desire. 

Participants of this study were not allowed informed consent.
Facebook contends this experiment was within its users’ terms of use, especially 
since the expressions of all users were not revealed to the research team. Therefore, 

consent was unnecessary.
As an ethical issue, should the participants have been informed and asked to con-
sent? What principles would determine asking for consent?
Facebook is a public company that funded this research exclusively with self- 
generated revenue. Should it be required to obtain informed consent? Why or why not? 

Are there any limits to the nature of research a public company can perform on its own? 

Are these legal limits or moral ones? If moral ones, what moral principles would neces-

sitate limits? Suppose the participants had been informed of the experiment; could that 

have biased the outcome?
