 Section 2.1  Authentication 
41  SIDEBAR 2-2 Facebook Pages Answer Security Questions
George Bronk, a 23-year-old resident of Sacramento, California, pleaded 
guilty on 13 January 2011 to charges including computer intrusion, false 

impersonation, and possession of child pornography. His crimes involved 

impersonating women with data obtained from their Facebook accounts.
According to an Associated Press news story [THO11], Bronk 
scanned Facebook pages for pages showing women’s email addresses. 

He then read their Facebook profiles carefully for clues that could help 

him answer security questions, such as a favorite color or a father’s mid-

dle name. With these profile clues, Bronk then turned to the email account 

providers. Using the same technique as Kernell, Bronk pretended to have 

forgotten his (her) password and sometimes succeeded at answering the 

security questions necessary to recover a forgotten password. He some-

times used the same technique to obtain access to Facebook accounts.After he had the women’s passwords, he perused their sent mail fold-
ers for embarrassing photographs; he sometimes mailed those to a victim’s 

contacts or posted them on her Facebook page. He carried out his activi-

ties from December 2009 to October 2010. When police confiscated his 

computer and analyzed its contents, they found 3200 Internet contacts and 

172 email files containing explicit photographs; police sent mail to all the 
contacts to ask if they had been victimized, and 46 replied that they had. 

The victims lived in England, Washington, D.C., and 17 states from Califor-

nia to New Hampshire.
The California attorney general’s office advised those using email and 
social-networking sites to pick security questions and answers that aren’t 

posted on public sites, or to add numbers or other characters to common 

security answers. Additional safety tips are on the attorney general’s website.
Password Use
The use of passwords is fairly straightforward, as you probably already know from 
experience. A user enters some piece of identification, such as a name or an assigned 

user ID; this identification can be available to the public or can be easy to guess because 

it does not provide the real protection. The protection system then requests a password 

from the user. If the password matches the one on file for the user, the user is authenti-

cated and allowed access. If the password match fails, the system requests the password 

again, in case the user mistyped.Even though passwords are widely used, they suffer from some difficulties of use:
• Use. 
Supplying a password for each access to an object can be inconvenient and 
time consuming.• Disclosure. 
If a user discloses a password to an unauthorized individual, the 
object becomes immediately accessible. If the user then changes the password to 

re-protect the object, the user must inform any other legitimate users of the new 

password because their old password will fail.
