 Section 1.3  Harm 
23  some risks and let others slide. Or we consider alternative courses of action, such as 
transferring risk by purchasing insurance or even doing nothing if the side effects of the 

countermeasure could be worse than the possible harm. The risk that remains uncovered 

by controls is called residual risk
.A basic model of risk management involves a user’s calculating the value of all 
assets, determining the amount of harm from all possible threats, computing the costs 
of protection, selecting safeguards (that is, controls or countermeasures) based on the 

degree of risk and on limited resources, and applying the safeguards to optimize harm 

averted. This approach to risk management is a logical and sensible approach to protec-

tion, but it has significant drawbacks. In reality, it is difficult to assess the value of each 

asset; as we have seen, value can change depending on context, timing, and a host of 

other characteristics. Even harder is determining the impact of all possible threats. The 

range of possible threats is effectively limitless, and it is difficult (if not impossible in 

some situations) to know the short- and long-term impacts of an action. For instance, 

Sidebar 1-3 describes a study of the impact of security breaches over time on corporate 

finances, showing that a threat must be evaluated over time, not just at a single instance. 
SIDEBAR 1-3  
Short- and Long-term Risks of Security Breaches
It was long assumed that security breaches would be bad for business: 
that customers, fearful of losing their data, would veer away from insecure 

businesses and toward more secure ones. But empirical studies suggest 

that the picture is more complicated. Early studies of the effects of secu-

rity breaches, such as that of Campbell [CAM03], examined the effects 

of breaches on stock price. They found that a breach’s impact could 

depend on the nature of the breach itself; the effects were higher when the 

breach involved unauthorized access to confidential data. Cavusoglu et al. 

[CAV04] discovered that a breach affects the value not only of the com-

pany experiencing the breach but also of security enterprises: On aver-

age, the breached firms lost 2.1 percent of market value within two days 

of the breach’s disclosure, but security developers’ 
market value actually 
increased
 1.36 percent.
Myung Ko and Carlos Dorantes [KO06] looked at the longer-term 
financial effects of publicly announced breaches. Based on the Campbell 

et al. study, they examined data for four quarters following the announce-

ment of unauthorized access to confidential data. Ko and Dorantes note 

many types of possible breach-related costs:
“Examples of short-term costs include cost of repairs, cost of replacement of 
the system, lost business due to the disruption of business operations, and lost 
productivity of employees. These are also considered tangible costs. On the 

other hand, long-term costs include the loss of existing customers due to loss 

of trust, failing to attract potential future customers due to negative reputation 
(continues)