368 Chapter 6  
NetworksComponent Failure
Being hardware devices, components fail; these failures tend to be sporadic, individual, 
unpredictable, and nonmalicious. As we have said, the Internet is robust enough that it 

can work around failures of most components. And attackers usually cannot cause the 

failure of a component, so these problems are seldom the result of a malicious attack. 

(See Sidebar 6-7 for a description of what seems to have been an induced hardware 

failure.) Nevertheless, security engineers need to remain mindful of the potential for 

system harm from equipment failures.
Next we turn to a technique attackers use to determine how to mount an attack. Like 
a burglar casing out a neighborhood for vulnerabilities, a successful attacker intent on 

harming a particular victim often spends time investigating the victim’s vulnerabilities 
SIDEBAR 6-7  
Stuxnet May Have Induced Hardware 
Failure
In June 2010, nuclear enrichment facilities in Iran were hit by the complex 
and sophisticated computer virus Stuxnet (mentioned in Chapter 3 and 

discussed in Chapter 13). Stuxnet targeted industrial control systems by 

modifying code on programmable logic controllers (PLCs) to make them 

work in a manner the attacker intended and to hide those changes from the 

operator of the equipment. The systems Stuxnet went after were ones using 

Siemens Simatic controllers, apparently at the nuclear plants at Bushehr or 

Natanz. Stuxnet targets specific power supplies used to control the speed 

of a device, such as a motor. The malware modified commands sent to the 

drives from the Siemens SCADA software, causing the controllers to vary 

the speed of a device, making it change speed intermittently.
Stuxnet targeted particular drives running at high speeds. Such high 
speeds are used only for select applications, one of which is uranium 

enrichment. According to Symantec’s Eric Chien “Stuxnet changes the 

output power frequency for short periods of time to 1410Hz and then to 

2Hz and then to 1064Hz.” [FAL10] The normal frequency of the motors is 

1064 Hz; running at a speed of 1400 Hz could destroy the equipment. Such 
wild frequency oscillations cause the motors to speed up, then slow, and 

then speed up again. Enriching uranium requires centrifuges spinning at 

a precise speed for a long time; changing the speed would significantly 

reduce the quality of the enriched product.
Indeed, some outside experts think as many as 1000 of approximately 
8000 centrifuges in the Iranian enrichment program failed in 2009 to 2010, 

during the peak of Stuxnet’s operation. Iran manufactured its own centri-

fuges, which were known to fail regularly, although probably not as many as 

1000 of 8000. The virus may also have been intended to keep maintenance 
engineers and designers busy replacing failed hardware and figuring out 

how to keep the whole system running. Stuxnet could have contributed to 
this failure rate, perhaps the first example of a malicious attack causing 

hardware failure.
