802 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptography12.5 DIGITAL SIGNATURES
We introduced digital signatures in Chapter 2. Recall that a digital signature is, like a 
handwritten signature, a means of associating a mark unique to an individual with a body 

of text. The mark should be unforgeable, meaning that only the originator should be able 

to compute the signature value. But the mark should be verifiable, meaning that other 

people should be able to check that the signature comes from the claimed originator.
The general way of computing digital signatures is with public key encryption; the 
signer computes a signature value by using a private key, and others can use the public 

key to verify that the signature came from the corresponding private key.
As we point out in Chapter 2, a digital signature must meet two requirements and 
ideally would satisfy two more:
• unforgeable (mandatory
). No one other than the signer can produce the signa-
ture without the signer’s private key.
• authentic (mandatory). The receiver can determine that the signature really 
came from the signer.
• not alterable (desirable
). No signer, receiver, or any interceptor can modify the 
signature without the tampering being evident.
• not reusable (desirable
). Any attempt to reuse a previous signature will be 
detected by receiver.
To support digital signatures, we need strong public key algorithms. The RSA algo-
rithm described earlier in this chapter is fine for digital signatures, but it is not the only 

possibility.
Elliptic Curve CryptosystemsElliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) was discovered in 1985 by Victor Miller (IBM) and 

Neil Koblitz (University of Washington) [MIL85, KOB87] as an alternative mechanism 

for implementing public-key cryptography. Unlike RSA, ECC is based on logarithms 

in finite fields; an advantage of ECC is that equivalent security can be had with shorter 

key lengths than RSA.
A problem with RSA from its inception has been that its developers patented the 
algorithm. Thus, users of the algorithm may be required to pay a license fee. Develop-

ers of the ECC algorithm placed it in the public domain, thereby avoiding licensing and 

fees. (Other developers have patented technologies incorporating ECC, so not every-

thing involving ECC is patent free.)
The mathematics behind elliptic curve cryptography is quite sophisticated, more so 
than we can possibly present here. The elliptic curves are (
x,y) coordinates of points 
that satisfy an equation such as 
y2  x3  ax  b for constants a and b. Nick Sullivan 
[SUL13] points out that any nonvertical straight line passes through at most three points 

on the curve. And, given any two points, P and Q, we can find the third point R through 

which the line PQR passes. When P 
 (xP,yP) and Q 
 (xQ,yQ), 
P  Q  R 