 Section 2.1  Authentication 
49  change seems small, the effect is large when someone is testing a full space 
of all possible combinations of characters. It takes about 100 hours to test all  

6-letter words chosen from letters of one case only, but it takes about 2 years 

to test all 6-symbol passwords from upper- and lowercase letters and digits. 

Although 100 hours is reasonable, 2 years is oppressive enough to make this 

attack far less attractive.
• Choose long passwords. 
The combinatorial explosion of password guessing dif-
ficulty begins around length 4 or 5. Choosing longer passwords makes it less 

likely that a password will be uncovered. Remember that a brute force penetra-

tion can stop as soon as the password is found. Some penetrators will try the 

easy cases—known words and short passwords—and move on to another target 

if those attacks fail.
• Avoid actual names or words. 
Theoretically, there are 26
6, or about 300 million 6-letter “words” (meaning any combination of letters), but there are only about 
SIDEBAR 2-3  
Will the Real Earl of Buckingham Please Step Forward?
A man claiming to be the Earl of Buckingham was identified as Charlie Stop-ford, a man who had disappeared from his family in Florida in 1983 and 

assumed the identity of Christopher Buckingham, an 8-month-old baby who 

died in 1963. Questioned in England in 2005 after a check of passport details 

revealed the connection to the deceased Buckingham baby, Stopford was 

arrested when he didn’t know other correlating family details [PAN06]. (His 

occupation at the time of his arrest? Computer security consultant.) 
The British authorities knew he was not Christopher Buckingham, but what was his real identity? The answer was discovered only because his 

family in the United States thought it recognized him from photos and a 

news story: Stopford was a husband and father who had disappeared more 

than 20 years earlier. Because he had been in the U.S. Navy (in military 

intelligence, no less) and his adult fingerprints were on file, authorities were 

able to make a positive identification.As for the title he appropriated for himself, there has been no Earl of 
Buckingham since 1687.In modern society we are accustomed to a full paper trail document-
ing events from birth through death, but not everybody fits neatly into that 

model. Consider the case of certain people who for various reasons need 

to change their identity. When the government changes someone’s identity 

(for example, when a witness goes into hiding), the new identity includes 
school records, addresses, employment records, and so forth. 
How can we authenticate the identity of war refugees whose home 
country may no longer exist, let alone civil government and a records 

office? What should we do to authenticate children born into nomadic tribes 

that keep no formal birth records? How does an adult confirm an identity 

after fleeing a hostile territory without waiting at the passport office for two 

weeks for a document?