22 Chapter 1  
Introductionbased on comparable loss: This version of the file is more valuable to you than that 
version.
In their 2010 global Internet threat report, security firm Symantec surveyed the kinds 
of goods and services offered for sale on underground web pages. The item most fre-

quently offered in both 2009 and 2008 was credit card numbers, at prices ranging from 

$0.85 to $30.00 each. (Compare those prices to an individual’s effort to deal with the 

effect of a stolen credit card or the potential amount lost by the issuing bank.) Second 

most frequent was bank account credentials, at $15 to $850; these were offered for sale 

at 19% of websites in both years. Email accounts were next at $1 to $20, and lists of 

email addresses went for $1.70 to $15.00 per thousand. At position 10 in 2009 were 

website administration credentials, costing only $2 to $30. These black market websites 

demonstrate that the market price of computer assets can be dramatically different from 

their value to rightful owners.
The value of many assets can change over time, so the degree of harm (and therefore 
the severity of a threat) can change, too. With unlimited time, money, and capability, 

we might try to protect against all kinds of harm. But because our resources are lim-

ited, we must prioritize our protection, safeguarding only against serious threats and the 

ones we can control. Choosing the 

threats we try to mitigate involves 

a process called risk management, and it includes weighing the seri-

ousness of a threat against our abil-

ity to protect.Risk and Common SenseThe number and kinds of threats are practically unlimited because devising an attack 

requires an active imagination, determination, persistence, and time (as well as access 

and resources). The nature and number of threats in the computer world reflect life in 

general: The causes of harm are limitless and largely unpredictable. Natural disasters 

like volcanoes and earthquakes happen with little or no warning, as do auto accidents, 

heart attacks, influenza, and random acts of violence. To protect against accidents or 

the flu, you might decide to stay indoors, never venturing outside. But by doing so, you 

trade one set of risks for another; while you are inside, you are vulnerable to building 

collapse. There are too many possible causes of harm for us to protect ourselves—or 

our computers—completely against all of them.In real life we make decisions every day about the best way to provide our security. 
For example, although we may choose to live in an area that is not prone to earthquakes, 

we cannot entirely eliminate earthquake risk. Some choices are conscious, such as 

deciding not to walk down a dark alley in an unsafe neighborhood; other times our sub-

conscious guides us, from experience or expertise, to take some precaution. We evaluate 

the likelihood and severity of harm, and then consider ways (called countermeasures or 

controls) to address threats and determine the controls’ effectiveness. 
Computer security is similar. Because we cannot protect against everything, we pri-
oritize: Only so much time, energy, or money is available for protection, so we address 
Risk management involves choosing 
which threats to control and what 

resources to devote to protection.
