 Section 1.3  Harm 
25  rain this week and take an educated guess at the number of inches of pre-
cipitation we will receive; rain is a fairly frequent occurrence. But security 

problems are often extreme events: They happen infrequently and under 

a wide variety of circumstances, so it is difficult to look at them as a group 

and draw general conclusions. Paul Slovic’s work on risk addresses the particular difficulties with 
extreme events. He points out that evaluating risk in such cases can be a 

political endeavor as much as a scientific one. He notes that we tend to let 
values, process, power, and trust influence our risk analysis [SLO99].
Beginning with Fischoff et al. [FIS78], researchers characterized 
extreme risk along two perception-based axes: the dread of the risk and 

the degree to which the risk is unknown. These feelings about risk, called 

affects
 by psychologists, enable researchers to discuss relative risks by 
placing them on a plane defined by the two perceptions as axes. A study 

by Loewenstein et al. [LOE01] describes how risk perceptions are influ-

enced by association (with events already experienced) and by affect at 

least as much if not more than by reason. In fact, if the two influences com-

pete, feelings usually trump reason.
This characteristic of risk analysis is reinforced by prospect theory: 
studies of how people make decisions by using reason and feeling. Kahne-

man and Tversky [KAH79] showed that people tend to overestimate the 

likelihood of rare, unexperienced events because their feelings of dread 

and the unknown usually dominate analytical reasoning about the low likeli-

hood of occurrence. By contrast, if people experience similar outcomes 

and their likelihood, their feeling of dread diminishes and they can actually 

underestimate rare events. In other words, if the impact of a rare event is 

high (high dread), then people focus on the impact, regardless of the likeli-

hood. But if the impact of a rare event is small, then they pay attention to 

the likelihood.Let us look more carefully at the nature of a security threat. We have seen that one 
aspect—its potential harm—is the amount of damage it can cause; this aspect is the 

impact component of the risk. We also consider the magnitude of the threat’s 
likeli-
hood. A likely threat is not just one that someone might want to pull off but rather one 
that could actually occur. Some people might daydream about getting rich by robbing 

a bank; most, however, would reject that idea because of its difficulty (if not its immo-

rality or risk). One aspect of likelihood is feasibility: Is it even possible to accomplish 

the attack? If the answer is no, then 
the likelihood is zero, and therefore 

so is the risk. So a good place to 

start in assessing risk is to look at 

whether the proposed action is fea-

sible. Three factors determine feasi-

bility, as we describe next.
Spending for security is based on the 
impact and likelihood of potential 
harm—both of which are nearly 

impossible to measure precisely.
