454 Chapter 6  
Networksport 25 (mail transfer) or port 69 (so-called trivial file transfer) is allowed to or from any 
host on the 192.168.1 subnetwork. By rule 3 any inside host is allowed outbound traffic 

anywhere on port 80 (web page fetches). Furthermore, by rule 4 outside traffic to the 

internal host at destination address 192.168.1.18 (presumably a web server) is allowed. 

All other traffic to the 192.168.1 network is denied.
Trust
A firewall is an example of the reference monitor, a fundamental computer security con-
cept. Remember from Chapters 2 and 5 that a reference monitor has three characteristics:• always invoked
• tamperproof
• small and simple enough for rigorous analysis
A firewall is a special form of reference monitor. By carefully positioning a firewall 
in a network’s architecture, we can ensure that all network accesses that we want to 

control must pass through the firewall. A firewall is positioned as the single physical 

connection between a protected (internal) network and an uncontrolled (external) one. 

This placement ensures the “always invoked” condition.
A firewall is typically well isolated, making it highly immune to modification. Usu-
ally a firewall is implemented on a separate computer, with direct connections only to 

the outside and inside networks. This isolation is expected to meet the “tamperproof” 

requirement. Furthermore, the firewall platform runs a stripped-down operating system 

running minimal services that could allow compromise of the operating system or the 

firewall application. For example, the firewall probably generates a log of traffic denied, 

but it may not have installed tools by which to view and edit that log; modifications, if 

necessary, can be done on a different machine in a protected environment. In this way, 

even if an attacker should compromise the firewall’s system, there are no tools with 

which to disguise or delete the log entries that might show the incident.
Finally, firewall designers strongly recommend keeping the functionality of the fire-
wall simple. Over time, unfortunately, demands on firewall functionality have increased 

(such as traffic auditing, a graphical user interface, a language for expressing and imple-

menting complex policy rules, and capabilities for analyzing highly structured traffic), 

so most current firewalls cannot be considered either small or simple. Nevertheless, 

firewall manufacturers have with-

stood most marketing attempts to 

add irrelevant functionality whose 

net effect is only to reduce the basis 

for confidence that a firewall oper-

ates as expected.
Types of Firewalls
Firewalls have a wide range of capabilities, but in general, firewalls fall into one of a 

small number of types. Each type does different things; no one type is necessarily right 

or better and the others wrong. In this section, we first motivate the need for different 
A firewall is a reference monitor, 

positioned to monitor all traffic, not 

accessible to outside attacks, and 
implementing only access control.
