684 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentseffectiveness of different controls can be compared on paper before actual invest-
ments are made. Risk analysis can thus be used repeatedly, to select an optimum set 

of controls.Arguments For and Against Risk AnalysisRisk analysis is a well-known planning tool, used often by auditors, accountants, and 

managers. In many situations, such as obtaining approval for new drugs, new power 

plants, and new medical devices, a risk analysis is required by law in many countries. 

There are many good reasons to perform a risk analysis in preparation for creating a 

security plan. • Improve awareness. 
Discussing issues of security can raise the general level 
of interest and concern among developers and users. Especially when the user 

population has little expertise in computing, the risk analysis can educate users 

about the role security plays in protecting functions and data that are essential to 
user operations and products.• Relate security mission to management objectives
. Security is often perceived 
as a financial drain for no gain. Management does not always see that security 

helps balance harm and control costs.• Identify assets, vulnerabilities, and controls. 
Some organizations are unaware 
of their computing assets, their value to the organization, and the vulnerabilities 

associated with those assets. A systematic analysis produces a comprehensive 

list of assets, valuations, and risks.
• Improve basis for decisions. 
A security manager can present an argument such 
as “I think we need a firewall here” or “I think we should use token-based 

authentication instead of passwords.” Risk analysis augments the manager’s 

judgment as a basis for the decision.• Justify expenditures for security. 
Some security mechanisms appear to be 
very expensive and without obvious benefit. A risk analysis can help identify 

instances where it is worth 

the expense to implement 

a major security mecha-
nism. Managers can show 

the much larger risks of 
not spending for security. 
However, despite the advantages of risk analysis, there are several arguments against 
using it to support decision making.• False sense of precision and confidence. 
The heart of risk analysis is the use 
of empirical data to generate estimates of risk impact, risk probability, and risk 

exposure. The danger is that these numbers will give us a false sense of preci-

sion, thereby giving rise to an undeserved confidence in the numbers. How-

ever, in many cases the numbers themselves are much less important than their 

relative sizes. Whether an expected loss is $100,000 or $150,000 is relatively 
Risk analysis provides a rational basis 

for spending for security, justifying both 

the things to spend on and the amounts 
to spend.