 Section 6.6  Cryptography in Network Security 
437  adequate protection, considering the likelihood of the interceptor’s breaking the encryp-
tion and the timeliness of the message. As with many aspects of security, we must bal-

ance the strength of protection with the likelihood of attack.
With link mode, all transmissions are protected along a particular link. Typically, a 
given host has only one link into a network, meaning that all network traffic initiated on 

that host will be encrypted for that host. But this encryption scheme implies that every 

other host receiving these communications must also have a cryptographic facility to 

decrypt the messages. Furthermore, all hosts must share keys. A message may pass 

through one or more intermediate hosts on the way to its final destination. If the mes-

sage is encrypted along some links of a network but not others, then part of the advan-

tage of encryption is lost. Therefore, link encryption is usually performed on all links of 

a network if it is performed at all.
By contrast, end-to-end encryption is applied to “logical links,” which are virtual 
channels between two processes, at a level well above the physical path. Since the inter-

mediate hosts along a transmission path do not need to encrypt or decrypt a message, 
they have no need for cryptographic facilities. Thus, encryption is used only for those 

messages and applications for which it is needed. Furthermore, the encryption can be 
done with software, so we can apply it selectively, one application at a time or even to 

one message within a given application.
The selective advantage of end-to-end encryption is also a disadvantage regarding 
encryption keys. Under end-to-end encryption, a virtual cryptographic channel exists 

between each pair of users. To provide proper security, each pair of users should share 

a unique cryptographic key. The number of keys required is thus equal to the number of 

pairs of users, which is n * (n  1)/2 for 
n users. This number increases rapidly as the 
number of users increases. As shown in Table 6-3, link encryption is faster, easier for the user, and uses fewer 
keys. End-to-end encryption is more flexible, can be used selectively, is done at the user 

level, and can be integrated with the application. Neither form is right for all situations.
In some cases, both forms of encryption can be applied. A user who does not trust 
the quality of the link encryption provided by a system can apply end-to-end encryption 

as well. A system administrator who is concerned about the security of an end-to-end 

encryption scheme applied by an application program can also install a link-encryption 
device. If both encryptions are relatively fast, this duplication of security has little nega-

tive effect.
Link-level encryption is especially well suited to implementing a private network 
by using public resources. A virtual private network, described in the next section, is a 

technique that provides privacy in a public network.
Browser Encryption
Browsers can encrypt data for protection during transmission. The browser and the 

server negotiate a common encryption key, so even if an attacker does hijack a session 

at the TCP or IP protocol level, the attacker, not having the proper key, cannot join the 

application data exchange.
