830 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
represent 73 percent of all those who completed the survey, does the result mean that 
73 percent of companies can expect to be attacked in the future? Or, since completing 

the questionnaire is voluntary, can we conclude only that respondents in the attacked 

500 sites were more likely to respond than the thousands of others who might not have 

been attacked?
When done properly, good surveys sample from the population so that not only 
can results be generalized to the 

larger group but also the results 

can be compared from year to year 
(because the sample represents the 

same population).Comparability of CategoriesThere are no standards in defining, tracking, and reporting security incidents and 

attacks. For example, information is solicited about
• “electronic attacks” (Australian Computer Crime and Security Survey)
• “security incidents,” “accidental security incidents,” “malicious security inci-
dents,” and “serious security incidents” (Information Security Breaches Survey)
• “any form of security breach” (Deloitte Global Security Survey)

• “incidents that resulted in an unexpected or unscheduled outage of critical busi-
ness systems” (Ernst and Young Global Information Security Survey).
Indeed, it is difficult to find two surveys whose results are strictly comparable. Not 
only are the data characterized differently, but the answers to many questions are based 

on opinion, interpretation, or per-

ception, not on consistent capture 

and analysis of solid data.Sources of Attack
Even the sources of attack are problematic. A recent Australian survey noted that the 
rate of insider attacks has remained constant, at the same time that the Deloitte survey 

suggested that the rate was rising within its population of financial institutions. There 

is often some convergence of findings across surveys, however. Viruses, Trojan horses, 

worms, and malicious code pose consistent and serious threats, and most business sec-

tors fear insider attacks and abuse of access. 
However, a firm may be unable to identify a specific cause of an attack. Was it a 
piece of malicious code? Which? From where? Did an insider do something? Mali-

ciously? Accidentally? Even with well-understood terms of study, some companies may 

be unable to supply data in proper categories. In such cases, some people leave a ques-

tion blank, others pick what they think is the closest answer, and still others guess. 

Inability to collect accurate data limits the validity of some surveys.
Financial ImpactMany of the surveys capture information about effect as well as cause, with similar dif-
ferences in effect over the same periods of time. These differences may derive from the 
Good surveys sample from a defined 

population so that results are 

comparable from year to year.
Good surveys measure consistent 

properties so results can be comparable.
