218 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programming5. Default to deny.
6. Adhere to the principle of least privilege.
7. Sanitize data sent to other systems.8. Practice defense in depth.9. Use effective quality-assurance techniques.
10. Adopt a secure coding standard.Of these ten, numbers 4, 5, and 6 match directly with Saltzer and Schroeder, and 3 and 
8 are natural outgrowths of that work. Similarly, the Software Assurance Forum for 

Excellence in Code (SAFECode)2 produced a guidance document [SAF11] that is also 
compatible with these concepts, including such advice as implementing least privilege 

and sandboxing (to be defined later), which is derived from separation of privilege and 

complete mediation. We elaborate on many of the points from SAFECode throughout 

this chapter, and we encourage you to read their full report after you have finished this 

chapter. Other authors, such as John Viega and Gary McGraw [VIE01] and Michael 

Howard and David LeBlanc [HOW02], have elaborated on the concepts in developing 

secure programs.Penetration Testing for Security
The testing approaches in this chapter have described methods appropriate for all pur-
poses of testing: correctness, usability, performance, as well as security. In this section 

we examine several approaches that are especially effective at uncovering security flaws.
We noted earlier in this chapter that 
penetration testing or 
tiger team analysis is a 
strategy often used in computer security. (See, for example, [RUB01, TIL03, PAL01].) 

Sometimes it is called ethical hacking, because it involves the use of a team of experts 
trying to crack the system being tested (as opposed to trying to break into the system 
for unethical reasons). The work of penetration testers closely resembles what an actual 

attacker might do [AND04, SCH00b]. The tiger team knows well the typical vulner-

abilities in operating systems and computing systems. With this knowledge, the team 

attempts to identify and exploit the system’s particular vulnerabilities. 
Penetration testing is both an art and science. The artistic side requires careful 
analysis and creativity in choosing the test cases. But the scientific side requires rigor, 

order, precision, and organization. As Clark Weissman observes [WEI95], there is an 

organized methodology for hypothesizing and verifying flaws. It is not, as some might 

assume, a random punching contest.Using penetration testing is much like asking a mechanic to look over a used car 
on a sales lot. The mechanic knows potential weak spots and checks as many of them 

as possible. A good mechanic will likely find most significant problems, but finding a 

problem (and fixing it) is no guarantee that no other problems are lurking in other parts 
2. SAFECode is a non-profit organization exclusively dedicated to increasing trust in information and com-
munications technology products and services through the advancement of effective software assurance 

methods. Its members include Adobe Systems Incorporated, EMC Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., 

Microsoft Corp., Nokia, SAP AG, and Symantec Corp.
