 Section 13.4  Cyber Warfare 
849  progress beyond committee, the concept could be reintroduced. The bill was based on 
and would extend the 1934 statute that created the Federal Communications Commis-

sion. This existing legislation authorizes the president to “use or control” communica-

tions outlets during moments of emergency involving “public peril or disaster.” The 

proposed change does not explicitly create a kill switch, but it requires only that the 

president notify Congress before taking control of infrastructure. Other rulers have 

already taken such sweeping action, as described in Sidebar 13-7.
Do Existing National Compacts Apply to Cyber Warfare?
National and international cooperation depend on international compacts. But do existing 

international compacts apply to cyber warfare? There are basic differences in approach 

to security from one country to another. For example, the European Privacy Directive 

gives a European citizen ownership of his or her personal information, but in the United 

States, no such ownership is legally guaranteed. How can these national differences be 

overcome so that information can be shared among allies fighting a cyber war?
At its meeting in September 2014, NATO member countries agreed that a cyber 
attack on any of them could trigger a response from all. This action reaffirmed Article 5 
SIDEBAR 13-7 How Egypt Pulled the Switch
In the midst of the 2001 Egyptian revolt against Hosni Mubarak’s rule, a tech-
nological revolt was missed by some observers: “the government’s ferocious 

counterattack, a dark achievement that many had thought impossible in the 
age of global connectedness. In a span of minutes just after midnight on 
Jan. 28, a technologically advanced, densely wired country with more than 

20 million people online was essentially severed from the global Internet.” 

[GLA11] Although the blackout lasted only five days and did not in the end 
help Mubarak stay in power, it offers lessons about security engineering.
The biggest vulnerability exploited by Mubarak was government 
ownership of the cyber infrastructure. Glanz and Markoff point out that this 

vulnerability is widespread. “Similar arrangements are more common in 

authoritarian countries than is generally recognized. In Syria, for example, 

the Syrian Telecommunications Establishment dominates the infrastruc-

ture, and the bulk of the international traffic flows through a single pipeline 

to Cyprus. Jordan, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and other Middle Eastern 

countries have the same sort of dominant, state-controlled carrier. . . . 

Activists in Bahrain and Iran say they have seen strong evidence of severe 

Internet slowdowns amid protests there. Concerns over the potential for a 

government shutdown are particularly high in North African countries, most 

of which rely on a just a small number of fiber-optic lines for most of their 

international Internet traffic.”
But government ownership is not the only problem. Others include 
the small number of connections to the outside world, each of which is also 
government controlled, and the reliance on content coming only from out-

side Egypt. What resulted was a topology that made it easy for the govern-

ment to cut Egypt off quickly and almost completely.
