 Section 9.6  Email Security 
635  Although this strategy is sound, the overhead involved indicates that this approach 
should be used only when anonymity is critical. The general concept leads to the ano-

nymity-preserving network TOR described in Chapter 6.
Disappearing EmailSome services claim to protect your privacy by enabling disappearing messages. That is, 
you can use the service to send a file, a photo, or a message that the service destroys as 

soon as it reaches its destination. As we noted earlier, the risk is considerable. Wortham 

[WOR14] points out that, “what is shared over the web and through mobile devices is 

at risk for interception or eventual retrieval, even if the hardware and software com-

panies that transmit them promise 

otherwise. Security vulnerabilities 

have been exposed at major banks, 

corporations, and retailers around 

the globe and at many start-ups.” 
Services such as Snapchat promise to remove all traces of what you send, to keep 
your content from snooping eyes. But sometimes the claims do not match the reality. 

Snapchat became wildly successful—so successful that it spurned a multibillion dollar 
offer to be bought by Facebook. In 2014, the Federal Trade Commission charged Snap-

chat with misrepresenting how it protects users’ information. 
In its charge, the FTC noted that Snapchat claimed that its messages, often called 
snaps, could not be saved. But in fact there were several ways to save them, including 

using a third-party app or workarounds involving taking a screen shot of the messages.
That was not the only privacy violation, though. Snapchat also “transmitted users’ 
location information and collected sensitive data like address book contacts, despite its 

saying that it did not collect such information. The commission said the lax policies 

did not secure a feature called ‘Find Friends’ that allowed security researchers to com-

pile a database of 4.6 million user names and phone numbers during a recent security 
breach.” [WOR14]
The lesson here is clear: If you plan to engage a service or use a product to protect your privacy, look first for evidence of how the protection is provided and whether it 

really works.
Spoofing and SpammingEmail has very little authenticity protection. Nothing in the SMTP protocol checks to 

verify that the listed sender (the From: address) is accurate or even legitimate. Spoofing 

the source address of an email message is not difficult. This limitation facilitates the 

sending of spam because it is impossible to trace the real sender of a spam message. 
Sometimes the apparent sender will be someone the recipient knows or someone on a 

common mailing list with the recipient. Spoofing such an apparent sender is intended to 

lend credibility to the spam message.Phishing is a form of spam in which the sender attempts to convince the receiver 
to reveal personal data, such as banking details. The sender enhances the credibility 
Email copies can remain with the 

recipient and at intermediate points for 

an unlimited time.