 Section 8.3  Cloud Security Tools and Techniques 
563  SIDEBAR 8-3 Dropbox Drops Authentication
For four hours during the afternoon of 19 June 2011, Dropbox, a popular 
cloud storage service, stopped authenticating users. A coding error caused 

their login system to begin accepting any password, leaving all user accounts 

completely vulnerable. This was the second time in a matter of months that 

security researchers were loudly complaining about Dropbox’s authentication 

issues; in April of that year, security researcher Derek Newton had discov-

ered that simply copying a small database file from a user’s hard drive was 

enough to gain full access to that user’s files in Dropbox.
Prior to April 2011, Dropbox had made strong claims about its security. 
Regarding encryption, the Dropbox website said, “All files stored on Dropbox 

servers are encrypted (AES256) and are inaccessible without your account 

password.” Regarding privacy, the site claimed that “Dropbox employees 

aren’t able to access user files, and when troubleshooting an account, they 

only have access to file metadata.” Soon after security researcher Christopher 

Soghoian publicly pointed out that these statements appeared to contradict 

his observations of how the site worked, Dropbox softened their statements. 

In an interview with ChenLi Wang [KAS11], a Dropbox executive, 
TechRepub-
lic reporter Michael Kassner asked why Dropbox’s encryption statement was 
shortened to the simple, “All files stored on Dropbox servers are encrypted 

(AES 256).” Wang’s response: “We were explaining that there are multiple 

safeguards on your data: that the files are stored encrypted and in addition, 

protected by your access credentials. However, a security professional could 

incorrectly infer that the encryption key comes from the user’s password, so 

we’ve separated the two points for clarity.” The company made a similarly 

sweeping change to the privacy statement, saying that employees were “pro-

hibited” from viewing users’ file contents rather than being unable to do so.
Dropbox’s glaring authentication gaffe would have been nearly impos-
sible if they had taken the small additional step of issuing each user a rela-

tively unique, password-derived encryption key. If that had been the case, 

the coding error might still have exposed user accounts but would almost 

certainly not have exposed users’ stored files. One possible reason Drop-

box chose not to do this was economic: Storing files unencrypted, or with 

all files using the same encryption key, requires much less storage on the 

part of the service provider because it lets them avoid storing multiple cop-

ies of the same file. When thousands of users back up the same version of 
Windows, for instance, they will all have many files in common. If Dropbox 

can identify the overlap, they need to store just one copy of each file, then 

maintain a record of all users who backed that file up, saving a great deal of 

storage space. Offering users true confidentiality, including from Dropbox 

itself, would mean sacrificing this money-saving strategy.
The cloud storage services with the strongest security reputations 
tend to publish their cryptography schemes in detail, and a number of 

trustworthy, independent security and cryptography researchers regularly 

review such schemes for correctness. When looking for a cloud storage 

provider who can protect your confidentiality, be sure you understand, to 

the extent possible, how they plan to protect your data.
