620 Chapter 9  
PrivacyUnderstanding the Online Environment
The Internet is like a big, unregulated bazaar. Every word you speak can be heard by 
many others. And the merchants’ tents are not what they seem: the spice merchant actu-

ally runs a gambling den, and the kind woman selling scarves is really three pirate 

brothers and a tiger. You reach into your pocket for money only to find that your wallet 

has been emptied. Then the police tell you that they would love to help but, sadly, no 

laws apply. Caveat emptor in excelsis.
We have previously described the web’s anonymity: It is difficult for two unrelated 
parties to authenticate each other. Internet authentication most often confirms the user’s 

identity, not the server’s, so the user is unsure whether the website is legitimate. This 

uncertainty makes it difficult to give informed consent for the release of private data: 

How can consent be informed if you don’t know to whom you are giving it? For an 

example of tracking and Internet privacy, see Sidebar 9-7.
SIDEBAR 9-7 Tracking—What Limits?
In 2010, the Lower Merion school district near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was found to be tracking its students online. Schools might have valid rea-

sons for monitoring students’ uses of the Internet, for example, while at 

school to keep children away from adult sites. In this case, however, the 

school district had issued computers for students to take home and wanted 
to be able to account for them in case of loss or theft. No, the school was 
not only monitoring to determine the location of all school-owned comput-

ers assigned to students, it was actively monitoring the students’ physi-
cal activities by web cam. A student learned of the tracking only when his 

assistant principal charged him with inappropriate behavior in his own 

home and showed a web-cam picture as evidence. (The student claimed to 

be eating candy, not using drugs.) 
The school district stated that it activated a web camera and col-
lected still images only to assist in tracking down lost or stolen computers. 
It later emerged that the school had obtained 50,000 images over a two-
year period, and that these images captured whoever was in view of the 

camera, without knowledge or consent. The student’s family sued, citing 

violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (1986), the Electronic Com-

munications Privacy Act (1986), and various Pennsylvania statutes.The school district settled two lawsuits over the incident for approxi-
mately $600,000. The FBI decided not to raise charges against the school 
district because they could not establish criminal intent. (Source: 
WHYY 
News, 12 Oct 2010.) As this case shows, computer tracking has important 
privacy rights implications.Data leakage of this nature is not new, but the growth of the Inter-
net has made it easy to reach millions of people, as the WikiLeaks (http:// 

wikileaks.org) postings have shown. 