92 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
word lengths and repeated characters, so humans are solving an easier problem. As we 
said, however, cryptanalysts also use every piece of information at their disposal.
Some of the algorithms we study in this book are based on known “hard” problems 
that take an unreasonably long time to solve. But the cryptanalyst does not necessar-

ily have to solve the underlying problem to break the encryption of a single message. 

Sloppy use of controls can reveal likely words or phrases, and an analyst can use edu-

cated guesses combined with careful analysis to generate all or much of an important 
message. Or the cryptanalyst might employ a spy to obtain the plaintext entirely outside 

the system; analysts might then use 
the pair of plaintext and correspond-

ing ciphertext to infer the algorithm 

or key used to apply to subsequent 

messages.Second, estimates of breakability are based on current technology. An enormous 
advance in computing technology has occurred since 1950. Things that were infeasible 

in 1940 became possible by the 1950s, and every succeeding decade has brought greater 

improvements. A conjecture known as “Moore’s Law” asserts that the speed of proces-

sors doubles every 1.5 years, and this conjecture has been true for over three decades. 

We dare not pronounce an algorithm secure just because it cannot be broken with 
cur-
rent
 technology, or worse, that it has not been broken yet.
In this book we write that something is impossible; for example, it is impossible to 
obtain plaintext from ciphertext without the corresponding key and algorithm. Please 

understand that in cryptography few things are truly impossible: infeasible or prohibi-

tively difficult, perhaps, but impossible, no.
Symmetric and Asymmetric Encryption SystemsRecall that the two basic kinds of encryptions are symmetric (also called “secret key”) 
and asymmetric (also called “public key”). Symmetric algorithms use one key, which 

works for both encryption and decryption. Usually, the decryption algorithm is closely 

related to the encryption one, essentially running the encryption in reverse.
The symmetric systems provide a two-way channel to their users: A and B share a 
secret key, and they can both encrypt information to send to the other as well as decrypt 

information from the other. As long as the key remains secret, the system also provides 

authenticity, proof that a message received was not fabricated by someone other than 
the declared sender.
3 Authenticity is ensured because only the legitimate sender can 
produce a message that will decrypt properly with the shared key.
Symmetry is a major advantage of this type of encryption, but it also leads to a prob-
lem: How do two users A and B obtain their shared secret key? And only A and B can 

use that key for their encrypted communications. If A wants to share encrypted com-

munication with another user C, A and C need a different shared secret key. Managing 
In cryptanalysis there are no rules: Any 

action is fair play.
3. This being a security book, we point out that the proof is actually that the message was sent by someone 
who had or could simulate the effect of the sender’s key. With many security threats there is a small, but 

non-zero, risk that the message is not actually from the sender but is a complex forgery.
