 Section 2.1  Authentication 
53  did a detailed survey of website authentication methods and found little uniformity, 
many weaknesses, and no apparent correlation between the value of a site’s data and its 

authentication requirements.Passwords are becoming oppressive as many websites now ask users to log in. But 
when faced with a system that is difficult to handle, users often take the easy route: 

choosing an easy password and reusing it on many sites. To overcome that weakness, 

some systems use a form of authentication that cannot be stolen, duplicated, forgotten, 

lent, or lost: properties of the user, as we discuss in the next section. The technology for 

passing personal characteristics to a remote server requires more than a keyboard and 

pointing device, but such approaches are becoming more feasible, especially as pass-

word table breaches increase.
Authentication Based on Biometrics: Something You Are
Biometrics are biological properties, based on some physical characteristic of the 
human body. The list of biometric authentication technologies is still growing. Now 

devices can recognize the following biometrics: 
• fingerprint
• hand geometry (shape and size of fingers)

• retina and iris (parts of the eye)

• voice

• handwriting, signature, hand motion

• typing characteristics

• blood vessels in the finger or hand

• face

• facial features, such as nose shape or eye spacing
Authentication with biometrics has advantages over passwords because a biometric 
cannot be lost, stolen, forgotten, or shared and is always available, always at hand, so to 

speak. These characteristics are difficult, if not impossible, to forge.
Examples of Biometric AuthenticatorsMany physical characteristics are possibilities as authenticators. In this section we pre- 
sent examples of two of them, one for the size and shape of the hand, and one for the 

patterns of veins in the hand.
Figure 2-2 shows a hand geometry reader. The user places a hand on the sensors, 
which detect lengths and widths of fingers, curvature, and other characteristics.
An authentication device from Fujitsu reads the pattern of veins in the hand. This 
device does not require physical contact between the hand and the reader, which is an 

advantage for hygiene. The manufacturer claims a false acceptance rate of 0.00008 per-

cent and false rejection rate of 0.01 percent, with a response time of less than one 

second. Figure 2-3 shows this device embedded in a computer mouse, so the user is 

automatically authenticated.