 Section 8.6  Conclusion 
583  becomes compromised, the attackers should not be given an opportunity to cover their 
tracks by erasing logs.Implementing and maintaining all the IaaS controls we have recommended is not an 
easy task, but it is well worth the effort. In addition to these IaaS-specific control rec-

ommendations, all the network and operating system security best practices described 

throughout this book apply to IaaS environments. If you can truly minimize your VM 

and network attack surfaces by limiting your systems to bare minimum functional-

ity, attackers will have an extremely difficult time accomplishing anything. Even if an 

attacker manages to take control of one of your VMs or enclaves, severely limited user 

privileges combined with application whitelisting should help prevent further damage.
8.6 CONCLUSION
The cloud has five defining characteristics:
• On-demand self-service• Broad network access
• Resource pooling
 • Rapid elasticity • Measured service
 There are three basic types of cloud offering—SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS—as well as 
four basic service models: public, private, community, and hybrid. A choice of cloud 

offering and service model should be grounded in a careful risk analysis and a cloud 

provider assessment.
Cloud services expose their customers to new threats but can be useful security tools. 
They are particularly helpful for availability and for augmenting the security of smaller 

organizations. 
Cloud customers can expect to have limited options for responding to security 
incidents that take place on cloud providers’ systems. Customers should work proac-

tively with cloud providers to understand what support will be available under those 

circumstances.FIdM allows cloud customers to use cloud resources without requiring an extra set 
of login credentials. It also allows all login credentials and authentication options to be 

managed centrally by the customer organization. SAML and OIDC are currently the 

prevailing FIdM standards for authentication, and OAuth is the prevailing FIdM stan-

dard for API authorization.
Securing IaaS means protecting your systems from the threats posed by shared infra-
structure while taking full advantage of the security benefits of VMs and virtual net-

works. Prudent use of encryption, both for data-in-transit and data-at-rest, is critical 

when using shared infrastructure. VMs should be cordoned off in enclaves and config-

ured to be highly specialized so as to minimize both their attack surfaces and the impact 

of successful attacks.