632 Chapter 9  
PrivacyThe Internet has few such rules, however. Loss of Internet privacy can cause the balance 
of knowledge power to shift strongly to the merchant’s side.
9.6 EMAIL SECURITY
We briefly introduced email threats in Chapter 4, focusing there on how email can be 

used as a vector to communicate an attack. In this chapter we return to email, this time 

analyzing privacy, and its lack, in email correspondence.
Email is usually exposed as it travels from node to node along the Internet. Further-
more, the privacy of an email message can be compromised on the sender’s or receiver’s 

side, without warning. 
Consider the differences between email and regular letters. Regular mail is handled 
by a surface-based postal system that by law (in most countries and in most situations) 

is forbidden to look inside letters. A letter is sealed inside an opaque envelope, mak-

ing it almost impossible for an outsider to see the contents. The physical envelope is 

tamper-evident, meaning the envelope shows damage if someone opens it. A sender 

can drop a letter in any mailbox, making the sending of a letter anonymous; there is no 

requirement for a return address or a signature on the letter. For these reasons, we have a 

high expectation of privacy with surface mail. (At certain times in history, for example, 

during a war or under an autocratic ruler, mail was inspected regularly. In those cases, 

most citizens knew their mail was not private.)
But these expectations for privacy are different with email. In this section we look at 
the reality of privacy for email.
Where Does Email Go, and Who Can Access It?
We discussed security threats against email in Chapter 4. In this section, we look only at 

the mechanics of transmitting email with attention to privacy impacts.
Email is conceptually a point-to-point communication. If Janet sends email to Scott, Janet’s computer establishes a virtual connection with Scott, the computers synchronize, 

and the message is transferred by some well-defined protocol, such as SMTP (simple 

mail transfer protocol). However, Scott may not be online at the moment Janet wants to 

send her message, so the message to Scott is stored for him on a server (called a POP or 

post office protocol server). The next time Scott is online, he downloads that message 

from the server. In the point-to-point communication, Janet’s message is private; in the 

server version, it is potentially exposed while sitting on the server.
Janet may be part of a large organization (such as a company or university), so she 
may not have a direct outbound connection herself; instead, her mail is routed through 

her organization’s server, too, where the message’s privacy could be in jeopardy. For 

instance, some organizations make clear to employees that all content on their servers is 

subject to scanning or scrutiny. 
A further email complication is the use of aliases and forwarding agents, which add 
more midpoints to this description. Also, Internet routing can create many hops in an 

inherently conceptual point-to-point model.