708 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsAn extension of fair use is the personal use doctrine. You might have a book of 
maps and make a copy of a single map to carry with you on a trip, throwing the copy 

away after you were done with it. You are not depriving the author of a sale: you own 

one copy and would not buy a second just for this trip. Thus, the copy is merely a con-

venience. Similarly, you might reasonably make a backup copy of a digital object, to 

guard against losing it if your computer fails or you lose your media player.
The copyright law also has the concept of a 
first sale
: after having bought a copy-
righted object, the new owner can give away or resell the object. That is, the copyright 

owner is entitled to control the first sale of the object. This concept works fine for 

books: An author is compensated when a bookstore sells a book, but the author earns no 

additional revenue if the book is later resold at a secondhand store. (Notice that an artist 

reaps no direct benefit when works become more valuable. If Andy Warhol sold a copy 

of his famous soup can image for 

$100 and now it fetches thousands 

times that amount, Warhol gets no 

share of the increase.)Requirements for Registering a Copyright
The copyright is easy to obtain, and mistakes in securing a copyright can be corrected. 
The first step of registration is notice. Any potential user must be made aware that the 

work is copyrighted. Each copy must be marked with the copyright symbol ©, the word 

Copyright, the year, and the author’s name. (At one time, these items were followed by 
All rights reserved 
to preserve the copyright in certain South American countries. Add-
ing the phrase now is unnecessary but harmless.)
The order of the elements can be changed, and either © or Copyright can be omitted 
(but not both). Each copy distributed must be so marked, although the law will forgive 

failure to mark copies if a reasonable attempt is made to recall and mark any ones dis-

tributed without a mark.
The copyright must also be officially filed. In the United States a form is completed 
and submitted to the Copyright Office, along with a nominal fee and a copy of the 

work. Actually, the Copyright Office requires only the first 25 and the last 25 pages of 
the work, to help it justify a claim in the event of a court case. The filing must be done 

within three months after the first distribution of the work. The law allows filing up to 

five years late, but no infringements before the time of filing can be prosecuted.
The crux of these cases is what a person buys when purchasing a 
CD. The copyright law holds that a person is not buying the music itself, but 
is buying the right to use the CD. “Using” the CD means playing it, lending 
it to a friend, giving it to a fan, or even reselling it, but not copying it to share 

with someone else. The original artist has the right to control distribution of 

copies of it, under a principle called first sale.An author or artist profits from the first 
sale of an object.SIDEBAR 11-1 Continued