414 Chapter 6  
Networkscommunication protocols were designed without authentication. Only now are authen-
ticating steps being added to router protocols.DNS AttacksOur final denial-of-service attack is actually a class of attacks based on the concept 

of domain name server. A domain name server queries other name servers to resolve 

domain names it does not know. For efficiency, it caches the answers it receives so that 

it can convert that name more rapidly in the future. An address mapped by a DNS server 

can be retained for weeks or months. Name Server Application Software Flaws
In the most common implementations of Unix, name servers run software called Berke-
ley Internet Name Domain, or BIND, or 
named (a shorthand for “name daemon”). 
BIND has had numerous flaws, including a now familiar buffer overflow. By overtaking 

a name server or causing it to cache spurious entries, an attacker can redirect the routing 

of any traffic, with an obvious implication for denial of service.
Top-Level Domain Attacks
Another way to deny service through address resolution failures involves incapacitating 
the Internet’s DNS system itself. In October 2002, a massive flood of traffic inundated 

the Internet’s top-level domain DNS servers, the servers that form the foundation of the 

Internet addressing structure. There are 13 top-level domain servers spread around the 

world; these servers translate the top level, or last part of a network address: the .com, 

.edu, .fr, .uk, .org, or .biz part of a URL. In the 2002 attack, roughly half the flood of 

traffic came from just 200 addresses. Although some people think the problem was a 

set of misconfigured firewalls, nobody knows for sure what caused the attack, and even 

whether it was an attack or an anomalous incident.
Again in 2007, a similar thing happened. On 6 February 2007, the DNS root name servers were hit with two massive denial-of-service attacks for a total of six hours. This 

time it was clearly an attack, at least part of which originated from the Asia-Pacific 

region [ICA07]. In this situation also, the impact of the attack was significantly reduced 

because, between 2002 and 2007, the Internet began using a new design for the root 

name servers. Called anycast, this technology allows the lookup function to be spread 

over many computers, even hundreds. Thus, attacks on a single DNS server, or even a 

small number of servers, have little impact.
An attack in March 2005 used a flaw in a Symantec firewall to allow a change in the 
DNS records used on Windows machines. The objective of this attack was not denial of 

service, however. In this attack, the poisoned DNS cache redirected users to advertising 

sites that received money from clients each time a user visited the site. Nevertheless, the 

attack also prevented users from accessing the legitimate sites.
These attacks attempt to deny service by limiting the system’s ability to resolve 
addresses. Because address resolution is distributed in the Internet, these attacks tend to 

be more effective at causing localized denial of service and less effective against large 

segments.
