 Section 6.5  Distributed Denial-of-Service 
423  To mount a 
distributed denial-of-service
 (or 
DDoS) attack, an attacker does two 
things, as illustrated in Figure 6-34. In the first stage, the attacker wants to conscript an 

army of compromised machines to attack a victim. Using any convenient attack (such 

as exploiting a buffer overflow or tricking the user to open and install unknown code 

from an email attachment), the mastermind plants a Trojan horse on a remote machine. 

That Trojan horse does not necessarily cause any obvious harm to the infected machine; 

in fact, the machine needs to remain healthy (and infected) so it can participate in the 

attack against the real victim. The foreign code file may be named for a popular editor 

or utility, bound to a standard operating system service, or entered into the list of pro-

cesses (daemons) activated at startup. No matter how it is situated within the system, it 

will probably not attract any attention.
The attacker repeats this process with many target computers. Each of these com-
promised systems then becomes what is known as a 
zombie. The target systems’ users 
carry out their normal work, unaware of the resident zombie. Many current vulnerabil-

ity attacks download code to the compromised machine to turn it into a zombie.
At some point the attacker chooses a victim and sends a signal to all the zombies 
to launch the attack. Then, instead of the victim’s trying to defend against a denial-

of-service attack from one malicious host, the victim must try to counter attacks from 
many
 zombies all acting at once. Not all the zombies need to use the same attack; for instance, some could use smurf attacks, and others could use SYN floods to address 

different potential weaknesses.
Scripted Denial-of-Service AttacksIn addition to their tremendous multiplying effect, distributed denial-of-service attacks 

are a serious problem because they are easily launched from scripts. Given a collection 

of denial-of-service attacks and a propagation method, one can easily write a procedure 
to plant a Trojan horse that can launch any or all of the denial-of-service attacks. DDoS 
Amazingly, the volume continues to mount. According to a report by 
Incapsula [INC14] by 2014 10 Gbps attacks, at the upper end in 2009, 

were puny; 33 percent of DDoS exceeded 20 Gbps, and in February 2014 

they noted one attack of an astounding 180 Gbps. Volume at the network 

level is not the only measure of growth in severity of DDoS attacks. The 

same report described websites attacked by 6 to 8 million requests per 

minute, which few sites are prepared to handle.
In late 2012, U.S. banks J.P Morgan Chase, SunTrust, Wells Fargo, 
and PNC were hit by several days of DDoS attacks, as financial institutions 

and news media sites became targets.Denial-of-service attacks are also starting to target specific network 
activity. A classic denial-of-service attack attempts to consume the entire 

bandwidth of a link, but recent attacks target firewalls, DNS servers, the 

infrastructure for VoIP services, load balancers, and the like. Because these 

services entail computation, they are slower and are overwhelmed by a 

smaller volume of traffic than a simple bandwidth exhaustion attack.
