 Section 9.1  Privacy Concepts 
595  because of things they have written that are available online. And this data exposure can 
affect most aspects of your life. For instance, suppose a company holds data about you, 

and that company’s records are exposed in a computer attack. The company may not be 

responsible for preventing harm to you, compensating you if you are harmed, or even 

informing you of the event.
United States law is based on a principle of protected speech: Under the first amend-
ment of the U.S. Constitution, every person is guaranteed that Congress cannot pass a 

law “abridging the freedom of speech.” A separate clause of the amendment protects 

the rights of individuals to express opinions freely in publications, which has led to 

a practice of permitting journalists to preserve the anonymity of people whose stated 

opinions are reported in articles. Free speech and freedom of the press lead to questions 
of applicability to digital media, as described in Sidebar 9-2.The web is a great historical archive, but because of archives, caches, and mirror sites, 
things posted on the web may never go away. As NBC News [NBC13] has reported, 

“Bits of you are all over the Internet. If you’ve signed into Google and searched, saved 

a file in your Dropbox folder, made a phone call using Skype, or just woken up in the 
SIDEBAR 9-2 Are Tweets Protected Speech?
In February 2011, reporter Dana Hedgpeth wrote in the 
Washington Post 
[HED11] that the U.S. government was attempting to obtain personal infor-

mation from the Twitter accounts of three people linked to the WikiLeaks 

investigation. The government’s lawyers requested screen names, mailing 

addresses, telephone numbers, bank account and credit card information, 

and IP addresses. However, the defendants’ lawyers insisted that this infor-

mation was protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. constitution. 
Although the case before the court addressed the WikiLeaks docu-
ments, this government request raises an important question: What data 

can the government seize from social networks? We have seen in this 

chapter that users have choices within an application about protecting the 

privacy of their data in a social network. But can the government override 

those settings? One of the defendants’ lawyers noted that “the users’ data 
would give the government a map of people tied to WikiLeaks and essen-

tially halt free speech online.” [HED11] Government lawyers pointed out 

that this is a standard request, and that they didn’t know if Twitter even col-

lects all the data items requested.
One of the issues raised in this request is whether the current laws 
apply to Internet technology. “Experts say they were meant to deal with 

telephone records, not such evolving technology as e-mails and tweets.” 

A lobbyist for the American Civil Liberties Union notes, “We’re using tools 

for accessing information on e-mail, social networking sites that were 

never contemplated.” In a 28 January 2011 blog, a Twitter representative 

explained the company position: “freedom of expression carries with it a 

mandate to protect our users’ right to speak freely and preserve their ability 

to contest having their private information revealed.”
