 Section 2.1  Authentication 
67  Tokens are vulnerable to an attack called skimming. 
Skimming is the use of a device 
to copy authentication data surreptitiously and relay it to an attacker. Automated teller 

machines (ATMs) and point-of-sale credit card readers are particularly vulnerable to 

skimming.1 At an ATM the thief attaches a small device over the slot into which you 
insert your bank card. Because all bank cards conform to a standard format (so you can 
use your card at any ATM or merchant), the thief can write a simple piece of software 

to copy and retain the information recorded on the magnetic stripe on your bank card. 

Some skimmers also have a tiny camera to record your key strokes as you enter your 

PIN on the keypad. Either instantaneously (using wireless communication) or later (col-

lecting the physical device), the thief thus obtains both your account number and its 

PIN. The thief simply creates a dummy card with your account number recorded and, 

using the PIN for authentication, visits an ATM and withdraws cash from your account 

or purchases things with a cloned credit card.Another form of copying occurs with passwords. If you have to enter or speak your 
password, someone else can look over your shoulder or overhear you, and now that 

authenticator is easily copied or forged. To overcome copying of physical tokens or 

passwords, we can use dynamic tokens. A 
dynamic token
 is one whose value changes. 
Although there are several different forms, a dynamic authentication token is essentially 

a device that generates an unpredictable value that we might call a pass number. Some 

devices change numbers at a particular interval, for example, once a minute; others 

change numbers when you press a button, and others compute a new number in response 

to an input, sometimes called a challenge. In all cases, it does not matter if someone else 
sees or hears you provide the pass 

number, because that one value will 

be valid for only one access (yours), 

and knowing that one value will not 

allow the outsider to guess or gener-

ate the next pass number.
Dynamic token generators are useful for remote authentication, especially of a per-
son to a computer. An example of a dynamic token is the SecurID token from RSA Lab-

oratories, shown in Figure 2-6. To use a SecurID token, you enter the current number 

displayed on the token when prompted by the authenticating application. Each token 

generates a distinct, virtually unpredictable series of numbers that change every min-

ute, so the authentication system knows what number to expect from your token at any 

moment. In this way, two people can have SecurID tokens, but each token authenticates 

only its assigned owner. Entering the number from another token does not pass your 

authentication. And because the token generates a new number every minute, entering 

the number from a previous authentication fails as well.
1. Note that this discussion refers to the magnetic-stripe cards popular in the United States. Most other coun-
tries use embedded computer chip cards that are substantially less vulnerable to skimming.Dynamic tokens have computing power on the token to change their internal 

state.