572 Chapter 8  
Cloud ComputingRegardless of how realm discovery happens, the next step is for the SP to craft an 
Authentication Request. A SAML Authentication Request contains, among other ele-

ments, the URL of the SP (the “Issuer” tag), the time of the request, and an optional 
(but recommended) digital signature. SAML digital signatures use the XML Signature 

specification (XMLDSig), which defines rules and tags for signing an XML message 

and XML-encoding the information needed to verify the signature.
The SP sends the Authentication Request back to the Subject’s browser along with 
an HTTP Redirect to the IdP, effectively sending the request to the IdP through the Sub-

ject’s system. At this point, the IdP presents a web page that authenticates the Subject. 

While SAML defines a number of typical authentication mechanisms an IdP might 

use, any authentication mechanism is allowed. An SP might require IdPs to use strong 

authentication to protect critical systems, and an IdP might choose a specific authentica-

tion mechanism for convenience or consistency. In most cases, the IdP will present the 

Subject with a typical login form and accept normal domain credentials, as discussed 
in Chapter 2.Once the Subject is authenticated, the IdP creates an Authentication Response 
(sometimes called a “SAML Token”) containing one or more SAML Assertions. Asser-

tions are the essence of SAML, for they contain the identity information the SPs need. 

SAML defines three types of Assertions:
• “Authentication: The assertion subject was authenticated by a particular means 
at a particular time.”
• “Attribute: The assertion subject is associated with the supplied attributes.”

• “Authorization Decision: A request to allow the assertion subject to access the 
specified resource has been granted or denied.” [OAS05a]
Essentially, the Authentication Assertion tells the SP that the Subject logged in 
successfully, the Attribute Assertion tells the SP who the Subject is, and the Authoriza-

tion Decision tells the SP what the Subject is allowed to see and do. Assertions con-

tain, among other elements, the URL of the IdP, the time the Assertion was created, an 

optional signature, and optional conditions under which the Assertion is valid. While 

the signature is optional, it is highly recommended as the best way to prevent a mali-

cious user from modifying the Assertion to gain access (although Sidebar 8-4 shows 

why this may not be good enough). Encryption is also important for Assertions because 

they are likely to contain security-relevant or personal information. 
Once the Authentication Response is created, the IdP sends it back to the Subject’s 
browser to be sent to the SP. The SP should check the signature for validity, decrypt 

the message, and create a security context for the Subject based on the Assertions. For 

instance, if an Assertion says the Subject is a teacher in a class, then the LMS should 

give that Subject privileges to edit the class site. After the Subject is logged in to the 

SP and the session has begun, the SP can continue to use SAML to query the IdP. For 

instance, if a student tries to delete a classmate’s comment from a message board, the 

LMS might ask the IdP for an Authorization Decision to determine whether to allow 

the action.All the groundwork laid above allows the university system to work seamlessly with 
that of the cloud provider. Students navigate to the LMS site, log in using their regular 
