 Section 13.2  Economics 
827  how cybersecurity affects the overall economy. These data can help us under-
stand how impairments to the information infrastructure can generate ripple 

effects
2 on other aspects of national and global economies.• Enterprise data enable us to examine how firms and enterprises apply security 
technologies to prevent attacks and to deal with the effects of security breaches. 

In particular, those data capture information about how enterprises balance their 

security costs with other economic demands.• Technology data
 describe threats against core infrastructure technologies, 
enabling modelers to develop a set of least-cost responses.
If we were looking at cost of labor, raw materials, or finished goods, we would have 
excellent data from which to work. Those concepts are easier to quantify and measure, 

governments assist in collecting the data, and economists know where to turn to obtain 

them. What makes these statistics so valuable to economists is that they are comparable. 

Two economists can investigate the same situation and either come to similar conclu-

sions or, if they differ, investigate the data models underlying their arguments to deter-

mine what one model has considered differently from the other.
Data to support economic decision making must have the following characteristics:
• Accuracy
. Data are accurate when reported values are equal to or acceptably 
close to actual values. For example, if a company reports that it has experienced 

100 attempted intrusions per month, then the actual number of attempted intru-
sions should equal or be very close to 100.
• Consistency. Consistent reporting requires that the same counting rules be used by all reporting organizations and that the data be gathered under the same con-

ditions. For example, the counting rules should specify what is meant by an 

“intrusion” and whether multiple intrusion attempts by a single malicious actor 
should be reported once per actor or each time an attempt is made. Similarly, if 

a system consists of 50 computers and an intrusion is attempted simultaneously 
by the same actor in the same way, the counting rules should indicate whether 

the intrusion is counted once or 50 times.• Timeliness
. Reported data should be current enough to reflect an existing situ-
ation. Some surveys indicate that the nature of attacks has been changing over 

time. For instance, Symantec’s periodic threat reports [SYM06] indicated in 

2006 that attack behavior at the companies it surveys had changed from mis-

chievous hacking to serious criminal behavior. But by 2014, the report noted 

that, “cybercriminals unleashed the most damaging series of cyber attacks in 

history—ushering in the era of the ‘Mega Breach.’” [SYM14] Thus, reliance on 

old data might lead security personnel to be solving yesterday’s problem.
• Reliability. Reliable data come from credible sources with a common under-
standing of terminology. Good data sources define terms consistently, so data 

collected in one year are comparable with data collected in other years.2. A ripple effect is a cascading series of events that happen when one event triggers several others, which 
in turn initiate others.