 Section 12.2  Symmetric Encryption Algorithms 
779  • It has been analyzed by competent experts and found to be sound.
 Even the best 
cryptographic experts can think of only so many possible attacks, and the devel-

opers may become too convinced of the strength of their own algorithm. Thus, a 

review by critical outside experts is essential.
• It has stood the “test of time.”
 As a new algorithm gains popularity, people con-
tinue to review both its mathematical foundations and the way it builds upon 

those foundations. Although a long period of successful use and analysis is not 

a guarantee of a good algorithm, the flaws in many algorithms are discovered 

relatively soon after their release.
Three algorithms are popular in the commercial world: DES (data encryption stan-
dard), RSA (Rivest–Shamir–Adelman, named after the inventors), and AES (advanced 

encryption standard). These three (as well as others) meet our criteria for commercial-

grade encryption. In the next sections we cover DES, AES, and RSA, three algorithms 

outlined in Chapter 2. In this chapter we delve more deeply into the internal structures. 

We do not go into complete detail on these algorithms because the referenced defining 

documents do that well, as well as elaborating on design choices and rationale for any 

interested readers.12.2 SYMMETRIC ENCRYPTION ALGORITHMS
For centuries, national military and diplomatic services have used cryptography to pro-

tect their secrets. In fact, the history of cryptography (beautifully told in David Kahn’s 

book [KAH96] or the abbreviated version [KAH67], if you can find it) almost exclu-

sively involves governments protecting things from other governments.
As digital computers became popular, companies who used those computers found 
they needed to protect data against exposure to competitors, as well as to ensure their 

workers’ privacy. And, as networking became more popular, they needed to prevent 

problems from faulty transmissions. So, for reasons of confidentiality and integrity, 

businesses and even some individuals began to search for encryption. Recognizing that 

lack of reliably high quality encryption would hold back commerce, the U.S. Depart-

ment of Commerce, through its National Bureau of Standards, took steps to make solid 

encryption available for industry.
DESThe Data Encryption Standard grew out of a project developed by IBM, which was at 

the time probably the largest supplier of mainframe computers to private industry. IBM 

figured that many of its customers would find encryption useful.
Background and History
In the early 1970s, the U.S. National Bureau of Standards (NBS), later renamed the 
National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST), recognized that the general 

public needed a secure encryption technique for protecting sensitive information. 

Historically, the U.S. Department of Defense and the Department of State had had 
