 Section 11.1  Protecting Programs and Data 
715  pulled out. Anyone can cut open the box and study the process. Therefore, the trade 
secret is easily discovered. In 
reverse engineering
, one studies a finished object to 
determine how it is manufactured or how it works.
Through reverse engineering someone might discover how a telephone is built; the 
design of the telephone is obvious from the components and how they are connected. 

Therefore, a patent is the appropriate way to protect an invention such as a telephone. 

However, something like a soft drink is not just the combination of its ingredients. Mak-

ing a soft drink may involve time, temperature, presence of oxygen or other gases, and 

similar factors that could not be learned from a straight chemical decomposition of the 

product. The recipe of a soft drink is a closely guarded trade secret. Trade secret protec-

tion works best when the secret is not apparent in the product.
Applicability to Computer ObjectsTrade secret protection applies very well to computer software. The underlying algo-
rithm of a computer program is novel, but its novelty depends on nobody else’s know-

ing it. Trade secret protection allows distribution of the 
result
 of a secret (the executable 
program) while still keeping the program design hidden. Trade secret protection does 

not cover copying a product (specifically a computer program), so it cannot protect 

against a pirate who sells copies of someone else’s program without permission. How-

ever, trade secret protection makes it illegal to steal a secret algorithm and use it in 

another product.The difficulty with computer programs is that reverse engineering works. Decom-
piler and disassembler programs can produce a source version of an executable pro-

gram. Of course, this source does not contain the descriptive variable names or the 

comments to explain the code, but it is an accurate version that someone else can study, 

reuse, or extend.
Difficulty of Enforcement
Trade secret protection is of no help when someone infers a program’s design by study-
ing its output or, worse yet, decoding the object code. Both of these are legitimate (that 

is, legal) activities, and both cause trade secret protection to disappear.
The confidentiality of a trade secret must be ensured with adequate safeguards. If 
source code is distributed loosely or if the owner fails to impress on people (such as 

employees) the importance of keeping the secret, any prosecution of infringement will 

be weakened. Employment contracts typically include a clause stating that the employee 

will not divulge any trade secrets received from the company, even after leaving a job. 

Additional protection, such as marking copies of sensitive documents or controlling 

access to computer files of secret information, may be necessary to impress people with 

the importance of secrecy.
In Table 11-1 we compare these three kinds of protection.
