68 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
We have now examined the three bases of authentication: something you know, are, 
or have. Used in an appropriate setting, each can offer reasonable security. In the next 

sections we look at some ways of enhancing the basic security from these three forms.
Federated Identity ManagementIf these different forms of authentication seem confusing and overwhelming, they can 

be. Consider that some systems will require a password, others a fingerprint scan, oth-

ers an active token, and others some combination of techniques. As you already know, 

remembering identities and distinct passwords for many systems is challenging. People 

who must use several different systems concurrently (email, customer tracking, inven-

tory, and sales, for example) soon grow weary of logging out of one, into another, 

refreshing a login that has timed out, and creating and updating user profiles. Users 

rightly call for computers to handle the bookkeeping.
A federated identity management scheme is a union of separate identification 
and authentication systems. Instead of maintaining separate user profiles, a federated 

scheme maintains one profile with one authentication method. Separate systems share 

access to the authenticated identity 

database. Thus, authentication is 

performed in one place, and sepa-

rate processes and systems deter-

mine that an already authenticated 

user is to be activated. Such a pro-

cess is shown in Figure 2-7.
Closely related is a single sign-on process, depicted in Figure 2-8. Think of an 
umbrella procedure to which you log in once per session (for example, once a day). 

The umbrella procedure maintains your identities and authentication codes for all the 
different processes you access. When you want to access email, for example, instead 

of your completing a user ID and password screen, the single sign-on process passes 

those details to the email handler, and you resume control after the authentication step 

has succeeded.Time-Based Token AuthenticationPASSCODEPINTOKENCODE
=Login:mcollings
2468159759Passcode:+Clocksynchronized to
UCTUnique seedToken code:Changes every60 secondsFIGURE 2-6 SecurID Token (Photo courtesy of RSA, the security division of EMS and copy-
right © RSA Corporation, all rights reserved.)
Federated identity management unifies the identification and authentication 
process for a group of systems.
