184 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingAlthough the malware writer usu-
ally must find a vulnerability and 

hope the intended victim has not yet 
applied a protective or corrective 

patch, each vulnerability represents 
a new opening for wreaking havoc 

against all users of a product. Flaws happen, in spite of the best efforts of development teams. Having discov-
ered a flaw, a security researcher—or a commercial software vendor—faces a dilemma: 

Announce the flaw (for which there may not yet be a patch) and alert malicious code 

writers of yet another vulnerability to attack, or keep quiet and hope the malicious code 

writers have not yet discovered the flaw. As Sidebar 3-7 describes, a vendor who cannot 

release an effective patch will want to limit disclosure. If one attacker finds the vulner-

ability, however, word will spread quickly through the underground attackers’ network. 

Competing objectives make vulnerability disclosure a difficult issue.
SIDEBAR 3-7 Just Keep It a Secret and It’s Not There
In July 2005, security researcher Michael Lynn presented information to the 
Black Hat security conference. As a researcher for Internet Security Sys-

tems (ISS), he had discovered what he considered serious vulnerabilities in 

the underlying operating system IOS on which Cisco based most of its fire-

wall and router products. ISS had made Cisco aware of the vulnerabilities a 

month before the presentation, and the two companies had been planning 

a joint talk there but canceled it.
Concerned that users were in jeopardy because the vulnerability 
could be discovered by attackers, Lynn presented enough details of the 

vulnerability for users to appreciate its severity. ISS had tried to block Lynn’s 

presentation or remove technical details, but he resigned from ISS rather 

than be muzzled. Cisco tried to block the presentation, as well, demand-

ing that 20 pages be torn from the conference proceedings. Various sites 

posted the details of the presentation, lawsuits ensued, and the copies 

were withdrawn in settlement of the suits. The incident was a public rela-

tions fiasco for both Cisco and ISS. (For an overview of the facts of the situ-
ation, see Bank [BAN05].)The issue remains: How far can or should a company go to limit vulner-
ability disclosure? On the one hand, a company wants to limit disclosure, 

while on the other hand users should know of a potential weakness that might 

affect them. Researchers fear that companies will not act quickly to close vul-

nerabilities, thus leaving customers at risk. Regardless of the points, the legal 

system may not always be the most effective way to address disclosure.
Computer security is not the only domain in which these debates arise. 
Matt Blaze, a computer security researcher with AT&T Labs, investigated 

physical locks and master keys [BLA03]; these are locks for structures such 

as college dormitories and office buildings, in which individuals have keys to 

single rooms, and a few maintenance or other workers have a single master 

key that opens all locks. Blaze describes a technique that can find a master 
Is it better to disclose a flaw and alert users that they are vulnerable or conceal 

it until there is a countermeasure? There 

is no easy answer.
