790 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographyonly of security but also of cost or efficiency of operation and ease of implementation 
in software. NIST described the four not chosen as also having adequate security for 

AES—no cryptographic flaws were identified in any of the five. Thus, the selection was 

based on efficiency and implementation characteristics. The winning algorithm, sub-

mitted by two Dutch cryptographers, was Rijndael (pronounced RINE dahl); the algo-

rithm’s name is derived from the creators’ names, Vincent Rijmen and Joan Daemen.
The algorithm is based on arithmetic in the finite field GF(2
8), but most encryp-
tion operations can be done by table lookup, thereby simplifying the implementation 
of AES.The algorithm consists of 10, 12 or 14 cycles, for a 128-, 192-, or 256-bit key, respec-
tively. Each cycle (called a “round” in the algorithm) consists of four steps.
• Byte substitution. This step uses a substitution substituting each byte of a 128-bit block according to a substitution table. This is a straight diffusion operation.
• Shift row.
 Certain bits are shifted to other positions. This is a straight confusion 
operation.• Mix column. This step involves shifting left and XORing bits with themselves. 
These operations implement both confusion and diffusion.
• Add subkey.
 Here, a portion of the key unique to this cycle is XORed with the 
cycle result. This operation delivers confusion and incorporates the key.
Each round performs both confusion and diffusion, as well as blending the key into 
the result. The structure of AES is shown in Figure 12-8.
Strength of Rijndael
The Rijndael algorithm is relatively new, but between its submission as a candidate for 
AES in 1997 and its selection in 2001, it underwent extensive cryptanalysis by both 

government and independent cryptographers. Its Dutch inventors have no relationship 

to the NSA or any other part of the U.S. government, so there is no suspicion that the 

government somehow weakened the algorithm or added a trapdoor. Although the steps 

of a cycle are simple to describe and seem to be rather random transformations of bits, 

these transformations have a sound mathematical origin. 
When Rijndael’s predecessor, DES, was adopted, two questions quickly arose:
1. How strong is it, and in particular, are there any backdoors?
2. How long would it be until the encrypted code could be routinely cracked?
With approximately 40 years of use, suspicions of weakness of DES (intentional 
or not) and backdoors have pretty much been quashed. Not only have analysts failed 

to find any significant flaws, but in fact research described earlier in this chapter has 

shown that seemingly insignificant changes weaken the strength of the algorithm—that 

is, the algorithm is the best it can be. The second question, about how long DES would 

last, went unanswered for a long time but then was answered very quickly by two exper-

iments in 1997 and 1998, in which DES was cracked in days. Thus, more than 20 years 
