496 Chapter 6  
Networksdeployed in your organization. Be prepared to have each user spend about a 
week training to learn to use the SIEM, and expect a temporary decrease in pro-

ductivity while learning to migrate old habits and workflows to the new system.
The functions of a SOC are like those of an air traffic control center or nuclear reactor 
control room: Large amounts of data accumulate from a variety of sources. The control 

staff has to use both experience and intuition to ensure that the system runs properly, so 

any technological help to organize and digest the data helps the staff be more effective. 

As long as the system runs properly, monitoring is mostly passive. However, when an 

anomaly occurs, the control staff need plenty of background data to determine what is 

happening and decide what to do next. We explore this active system management role, 

called incident response, in Chapter 10.6.10 CONCLUSION
In this chapter we have covered many details of network communications and security. 

Some of the material has expanded on previous topics (such as interception and modifi-

cation) in a new context, while some has been unlike topics we have previously explored 

(such as distributed denial-of-service). We have explored technology (WiFi commu-

nications and security protocols, DNS, firewalls, and intrusion detection devices) and 

policy and practice (network management). Network security is extraordinarily impor-

tant in the larger field of computer security, but it builds on many of the building blocks 

we have already established (encryption, identification and authentication, access con-

trol, resilient design, least privilege, trust, threat modeling). Thus, although this chapter 

has presented new terms and concepts, much of the material may seem like reasonable 

extensions and expansions of what you already know.
As we laid out in Chapter 1, our order of topics in Chapters 2 through 6 has intention-ally been from things closest to the user (programs) to those most remote (networks). 

In the next chapter we take yet one more step away by looking at data and how it is 

collected, aggregated, and analyzed. With networks the user has some control of one 

end of the connection. When we consider data, however, the user gives up data almost 

imperceptibly and has little if any control over how it is used, by whom, and when.
6.11 EXERCISES
1. In this chapter we have described sequence numbers between a sender and receiver as a way 
to protect a communication stream against substitution and replay attacks. Describe a situ-

ation in which an attacker can substitute or replay in spite of sequence numbers. For which 

type of sequence numbering—one general stream of sequence numbers or a separate stream 
for each pair of communicators—is this attack effective?
2. Does a gasoline engine have a single point of failure? Does a motorized fire engine? Does a 
fire department? How does each of the last two compensate for single points of failure in the 

previous one(s)? Explain your answers.
