692 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsDetecting TheftFor some devices, protection is more important than detection. We want to keep some-

one from stealing certain systems or information at all costs. But for other devices, it 

may be enough to detect that an attempt has been made to access or steal hardware 

or software. For example, chaining down a disk makes it unusable. Instead, we try to 

detect when someone tries to leave a protected area with the disk or other protected 

object. In these cases, the protection mechanism should be small and unobtrusive.
One such mechanism is similar to the protection used by many libraries, bookstores, 
or department stores. Each sensitive object is marked with a special label. Although 

the label looks like a normal pressure-sensitive one, its presence can be detected by 

a machine at the exit door if the label has not been disabled by an authorized party, 

such as a librarian or sales clerk. Similar security code tags are available for vehicles, 

people, machinery, and documents. Some tags are enabled by radio transmitters. When 

the detector sounds an alarm, someone must apprehend the person trying to leave with 

the marked object.
Interception of Sensitive Information
When disposing of a draft copy of a confidential report containing its sales strategies for 

the next five years, a company wants to be especially sure that the report is not recon-

structable by one of its competitors. When the report exists only as hard copy, destroy-

ing the report is straightforward, usually accomplished by shredding or burning. But 

when the report exists digitally, destruction is more problematic. There may be many 

copies of the report in digital and paper form and in many locations (including on the 

computer and on storage media). There may also be copies in backups and archived in 

email files. In this section, we look at several ways to dispose of sensitive information.
Shredding
Shredders have existed for a long time, as devices used by banks, government agencies, 
and others organizations to dispose of large amounts of confidential data. Although 

most of the shredded data is on paper, shredders can also be used for destroying printer 

ribbons and some types of disks and tapes. Shredders work by converting their input to 

thin strips or pulp, with enough volume to make it infeasible for most people to try to 

reconstruct the original from its many pieces. When data are extremely sensitive, some 

organizations burn the shredded output for added protection.
For small, inexpensive devices such as flash drives, simply breaking the object in 
half is another effective means of destruction. The internal circuitry is so small that reat-

taching all the broken connections is most unlikely.
Overwriting Magnetic DataMagnetic media present a special problem for those trying to protect the contents. 
When data are stored on magnetic disks, the ERASE or DELETE functions often sim-
ply change a directory pointer to free up space on the disk. As a result, the sensitive data 

are still recorded on the medium, and they can be recovered by analysis of the directory. 
