 Section 13.3  Electronic Voting 
839  Furthermore, as you are well aware by this point, Internet voting systems are open 
to attacks impossible with paper systems. For example, J. Alex Halderman and his stu-

dents were asked to review the Washington D.C. Internet voting system for casting 

absentee ballots, which would be quite convenient for people stationed overseas, such 

as soldiers on active duty. Within 36 hours of first access to a test version of the system, 

the team was able to completely compromise the system: They could discard ballots 

already cast and forge new ones at will, and they could associate any ballot with the 

identity of the person who cast it [HAL10]. Their attack used a simple instance of the 

classic script injection attack we describe in Chapter 4.In this book, we often encourage you to think like an attacker. What kinds of attacks 
might one perpetrate on an electronic voting process?
Secrecy
How might an attacker reveal someone’s vote? Consider how program flaws could, 
for example, print two copies of the vote recorded: one that the voter picks up and 
SIDEBAR 13-4 California’s Top-to-Bottom Review
Over the decade from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s, many jurisdictions 
migrated from a paper-based balloting process to some form of electronic 

voting. But as they did so, a variety of malfunctions were reported both in 

the voting machines and the process that incorporated them. As a con-

sequence, in May 2007, California’s Secretary of State ordered a “top-to-

bottom review” of the electronic voting process in California. Led by Matt 

Bishop of the University of California Davis and Richard Kemmerer of the 

University of California Santa Barbara, the teams analyzed electronic voting 

in several ways:• They performed a security evaluation of all source code for the four 
types of voting machines then in use in the state: Diebold (now Pre-

mier) Election Systems, Hart InterCivic, Sequoia Voting Systems, and 

Elections Systems and Software, Inc.
• For each type of voting machine, they thoroughly reviewed the docu-
mentation provided by the manufacturer.
• They investigated the ability of each machine to meet requirements 
for accessibility, including provision of the ballot in a variety of foreign 

languages.• They formed “red teams” to perform penetration testing on each 
machine and process. Acting as though it were election day, the 

teams attempted to identify vulnerabilities that could allow tampering 
with votes or lead to errors in the results.
The teams found significant flaws in each of the systems—flaws that could be exploited by someone who need not have expertise in computer 

security but who could compromise the result of an election. As a result, the 

Secretary of State decertified usage of each machine being studied.
