 Section 7.5  Data Mining and Big Data 
541  increased exponentially since the introduction of computers, and the amount of storage 
a given amount of money will buy has similarly skyrocketed.
Beginning in the mid-2000s companies began to amass and analyze new kinds of 
information. Big companies such as Amazon, GE, and AT&T invested heavily in learn-

ing more about their customers. One geographic region had especially loyal fans of a 

sports team, another had disproportionately more supporters of one political party, and 

another had high disposable incomes. Sidebar 7-7 gives an example of the use of big 

data to predict crime.SIDEBAR 7-7  
Police Use Data Mining to Predict 
(and Prevent) Crime
Police Chief Rodney Monroe of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg, North Carolina 
Police Department uses technology to reduce crime. He argues that mea-

surement and analysis are keys to smarter police work.
As Chief of Police in Richmond, Virginia, in 2005 he introduced data 
analysis from seemingly unrelated sources, such as weather, traffic volume, 

day of week, paydays, as well as more usual police data such as crime 

reports and emergency response calls. He found (not surprisingly) that rob-

beries tended to spike on paydays from large employers in areas where 

fewer residents have bank accounts and thus use storefront check-cashing 

businesses. People walking around with large amounts of cash would be 

appealing targets. By analyzing such data and targeting policing activity to 
high-potential situations, the Richmond Police Department saw crime fall 

21 percent in 2005–2006 and another 19 percent in 2006–2007. Since mov-

ing to Charlotte, Chief Monroe has implemented similar approaches and 

has seen a 20 percent drop in violent crime and 30 percent reduction in 

property crime, according to a report in 
Computerworld (24 October 2013).
Other police departments are using tools such as PredPol, developed 
at the University of California Los Angeles. PredPol is based on the same 

algorithms used to predict locations of aftershocks from earthquakes. The 

tool develops predictions for 500 ft (150 m) square boxes, showing officers 

which areas are at highest risk of particular types of crime; police can then 

focus patrolling on the most likely spots.
Predictive policing is not without problems, as Jennifer Bachner 
[BAC13] points out. Overreliance on technology, separating the officers 

from the community (so officers interact with programs instead of devel-

oping leads by conversing with community members), privacy concerns, 

data correctness, and security in managing data are all limitations of using 

analysis to suggest hot spots for police attention.Police departments are using the same strategies and techniques 
as retailers, manufacturers, and other businesses. Faced with limited 

resources, police captains want to deploy officers where and when they 

can do the most good—preventing crime instead of searching for criminals 

after the incident. Inferring patterns from past data helps managers make 

informed choices.
