580 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computingsoftware, configuring security controls, and so on. Once the VM is set up, with your 
MMO software installed and ready to run, you would save the VM as a new template, 

and this would be the one you use for provisioning new servers.
Now, when your game is ready for release, you have offloaded a number of con-
cerns. You do not need to worry about buying, storing, or cooling servers, ensuring you 

have sufficient network bandwidth, or maintaining revision control across your servers. 

Instead, you start running a few copies of the same VM in an IaaS environment, then 

monitor how taxed those servers are. If one of those servers comes to have enough users 

that its processor, memory, or network bandwidth is oversubscribed, start up a new VM 

instance and shift some users to that server. If your VMs are being underutilized, do the 

opposite. Some providers will even automate this scaling for you. You can have exactly 

the server and communication infrastructure you need to meet demand, while taking on 

minimal risk.You now understand what IaaS is and how it works, so the rest of this section focuses 
on best practices for using IaaS securely. We particularly look at public IaaS offerings, 

and how securing them differs from securing private networks.
Public IaaS Versus Private Network Security
Three salient differences between public IaaS and traditional networks should influence 

your security approach:1. As we mentioned earlier in the chapter, shared infrastructure in IaaS incurs new 
threats that you need to address.2. There are typically more ways to access and control IaaS hosts than traditional 
hosts, including via APIs.
3. IaaS removes many of the traditional constraints on network security by making 
new VMs and private networks easy and cheap to deploy.
Over the next three sections, we cover each of these differences, and how each might 
have an impact on your security deployment.
Shared Infrastructure
Earlier in the chapter we briefly looked at some of the attacks that shared infrastructure 
makes possible. In short, just about any hardware or virtual device can potentially leak 

data to attackers, and some can do more harm than that. Of course, one can do little 

about controlling processor temperature or even hypervisor patching in IaaS, but one 

can address a couple of shared infrastructure threats.The first of these is the threat of shared storage. When you delete a file in the cloud, 
the file system deallocates it—that is, forgets it exists—but the file stays on a hard drive 

somewhere until it is overwritten. Cloud providers generally overwrite storage to protect 

confidentiality just before they allocate it to a new user, but there is no reason you need 

to trust that this is happening consistently: You can fairly easily mitigate the risk on your 

own. One option is to use a commercial encryption product to encrypt your sensitive 

files, in which case you need not care whether a deleted file gets overwritten, since it 
