16 Chapter 1  
IntroductionIn the summer of 2014 a series of attacks against J.P. Morgan Chase bank and up to 
a dozen similar financial institutions allowed the assailants access to 76 million names, 

phone numbers, and email addresses. The attackers—and even their country of origin— 

remain unknown, as does the motive. Perhaps the attackers wanted more sensitive finan-

cial data, such as account numbers or passwords, but were only able to get the less 

valuable contact information. It is also not known if this attack was related to an attack 

a year earlier that disrupted service to that bank and several others.
To imagine the full landscape of possible attacks, you may find it useful to consider 
the kinds of people who attack computer systems. Although potentially anyone is an 

attacker, certain classes of people stand out because of their backgrounds or objectives. 

Thus, in the following sections we look at profiles of some classes of attackers.
Types of Attackers
Who are attackers? As we have seen, their motivations range from chance to a specific 

target. Putting aside attacks from natural and benign causes, we can explore who the 

attackers are and what motivates them.
Most studies of attackers actually analyze computer criminals, that is, people who 
have actually been convicted of a crime, primarily because that group is easy to identify 

and study. The ones who got away or who carried off an attack without being detected 

may have characteristics different from those of the criminals who have been caught. 

Worse, by studying only the criminals we have caught, we may not learn how to catch 

attackers who know how to abuse the system without being apprehended.
What does a cyber criminal look like? In television and films the villains wore 
shabby clothes, looked mean and sinister, and lived in gangs somewhere out of town. 

By contrast, the sheriff dressed well, stood proud and tall, was known and respected by 

everyone in town, and struck fear in the hearts of most criminals.
To be sure, some computer criminals are mean and sinister types. But many more 
wear business suits, have university degrees, and appear to be pillars of their commu-

nities. Some are high school or university students. Others are middle-aged business 

executives. Some are mentally deranged, overtly hostile, or extremely committed to a 

cause, and they attack computers as a symbol. Others are ordinary people tempted by 

personal profit, revenge, challenge, advancement, or job security—like perpetrators of 

any crime, using a computer or not. Researchers have tried to find the psychological 

traits that distinguish attackers, as described in Sidebar 1-1. These studies are far from 

conclusive, however, and the traits they identify may show correlation but not neces-

sarily causality. To appreciate this point, suppose a study found that a disproportionate 

number of people convicted of computer crime were left-handed. Does that result imply 

that all left-handed people are computer criminals or that only left-handed people are? 
Certainly not. No single profile captures the characteristics of a “typical” computer 

attacker, and the characteristics of some notorious attackers also match many people 

who are not attackers. As shown in 

Figure 1-10, attackers look just like 

anybody in a crowd.
No one pattern matches all attackers.
