 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
177  plans (as was reported for an infection of computers of five petroleum industry 
companies in February 2011), or serving as a compromised agent for sending 
spam email or mounting a denial-of-service attack, as described in Chapter 6.As we point out in Chapter 1, without our knowing the mind of the attacker, motive 
can be hard to determine. However, this third category has an obvious commercial 

motive. Organized crime has taken an interest in using malicious code to raise money 

[WIL01, BRA06, MEN10].Harm to Users Most malicious code harm occurs to the infected computer’s data. Here are some real-

world examples of malice.
• Hiding the cursor.
• Displaying text or an image on the screen.

• Opening a browser window to web sites related to current activity (for example, 
opening an airline web page when the current site is a foreign city’s tourist 

board).• Sending email to some or all entries in the user’s contacts or alias list. Note that 
the email would be delivered as having come from the user, leading the recipi-

ent to think it authentic. The Melissa virus did this, sending copies of itself as 

an attachment that unsuspecting recipients would open, which then infected the 

recipients and allowed the infection to spread to their contacts.
• Opening text documents and changing some instances of “is” to “is not,” and 
vice versa. Thus, “Raul is my friend” becomes “Raul is not my friend.” The 

malware changed only a few instances in random locations, so the change would 

not be readily apparent. Imagine the effect these changes would have on a term 

paper, proposal, contract, or news story.
• Deleting all files. The Jerusalem virus did this every Friday that was a 13th day 
of the month.• Modifying system program files. Many strains of malware do this to ensure 
subsequent reactivation and avoid detection.
• Modifying system information, such as the Windows registry (the table of all 
critical system information).• Stealing and forwarding sensitive information such as passwords and login 
details.In addition to these direct forms of harm, the user can be harmed indirectly. For 
example, a company’s public image can be harmed if the company’s web site is hijacked 

to spread malicious code. Or if the attack makes some web files or functions unavail-

able, people may switch to a competitor’s site permanently (or until the competitor’s 

site is attacked).
Although the user is most directly harmed by malware, there is secondary harm as 
the user tries to clean up a system after infection. Next we consider the impact on the 

user’s system.
