 Section 8.2  Moving to the Cloud 
559  SIDEBAR 8-2 One Man’s Single Point of Failure
In August 2012, journalist Mat Honan had his digital life turned upside 
down. He was playing with his daughter when his Apple iPhone suddenly 
shut off. When the phone rebooted, all of his data were gone. Luckily, 

Honan had set the phone to regularly backup to his Apple laptop, so he 

wasn’t concerned. Soon after he opened the laptop, the screen went gray, 

and he knew he had a real problem. Before long, Honan discovered that, in 

addition to his phone, his laptop and Apple iPad had been wiped, and that 
his Gmail and Twitter accounts had been hacked as well.
Here’s an abridged version of how it happened [HON12]: The hack-
ers started with the original target, which was Honan’s Twitter account  

(“@mat”). The Twitter account linked to his personal website, which in turn 

listed his Gmail address. When the hackers went to Gmail to attempt to 

reset Honan’s account password, Gmail showed them Honan’s obscured 

emergency alternate email address: m****n@me.com. me.com is owned by 

Apple. The hackers correctly guessed that the me.com address would be 

Honan’s username for Apple iCloud, a service that ties all of a user’s Apple 

devices together with data stored at Apple’s data centers.
Because the hackers had perpetrated attacks like this before, they 
knew that the only additional information they would need to hack the 

iCloud account would be Honan’s mailing address and the last four digits 

of his credit card number. The mailing address was easy enough: They just 

searched the whois record for Honan’s website. To get the last four digits 

of the credit card, the hackers went to Amazon. They correctly assumed 

that Honan’s Amazon username would be his Gmail address and, given 

that and the information they already had, they were able to trick Ama-

zon into showing them the last four digits of the credit cards associated 

with the account (for details on this part of the attack, see the 
Wired
 article 
[HON12]).Once the hackers had those four digits, they had all they needed to get Apple customer service to let them into Honan’s iCloud account. Thanks 

to a very useful iCloud security feature that allows users to remotely wipe 

Apple devices in the event of theft, the attackers were able to delete all of 

Honan’s data from his devices within minutes.
Perhaps the most amazing part of this story is the way Honan found 
out how the attack went down: The hackers told him. One of the hackers 
reached out to him and, in exchange for a promise not to press charges, 

detailed the whole event.While one can take a number of valuable security lessons from this 
story, identifying and eliminating single points of failure is an important one. 

The obvious single point of failure is the linkage between Honan’s devices 

and his iCloud account. He used his Apple laptop to back up his Apple 

phone, and he allowed his Apple iCloud account permission to remotely 

wipe both the laptop and phone. But on top of that, it was because all of 
his accounts were intertwined—albeit in a nonobvious way—that the attack 

was even possible.