584 Chapter 8  
Cloud ComputingWhere the Field Is Headed
Much of the research on cloud computing security focuses on attacks via shared infra-structure. The research by Zhang, et al., on cross-VM side-channel attacks [ZHA12] is 

a strong example of this trend. On the other side of that trend, researchers led by Shafi 

Goldwasser of MIT [GOL13] are studying homomorphic encryption, a technique that 

someday may allow users to process data on shared infrastructure without ever having 

to decrypt it. Researchers at UCLA are spearheading an effort toward cryptographic 

obfuscation [GAR13], which may someday allow users to run software on shared infra-

structure without risk that any other user of that infrastructure could even identify what 

the software does.
A Boston University research team is creating what they call a Modular Approach to 
Cloud Security (MACS). The goal of MACS is to build cloud infrastructure from small, 

modular components, each with its own security guarantees. Their aim is to assemble 

these components into systems with stronger and more analyzable security than exists 

in cloud environments today.
To Learn More
The security guidance white paper by the CSA [CSA11] presents a comprehensive 

overview of cloud security concerns. NIST SPs 800-144 [JAN11], 800-145 [MEL11], 

and 800-146 [BAD12] add further cloud security guidance.
For more detailed guidelines on forensic evidence collection, see RFC 3227 
[BRE02b].For a more complete understanding of SAML, see the SAML protocol standard 
[OAS05a] and the SAML security concerns standard [OAS05b]. For developers inter-

ested in building OAuth-enabled services, RFC 6819 [LOD13] gives a detailed list-

ing of threats and suggested countermeasures associated with OAuth 2.0. Other typical 

OAuth information flows and use cases are defined in RFC 6749 [HAR12].
The white paper by Todorov and Ozkan [TOD13] offers a strong overview of IaaS 
best practices.8.7 EXERCISES
1. Explain the differences between public, private, and community clouds. What are some of 
the factors to consider when choosing which of the three to use?
2. How do cloud threats differ from traditional threats? Against what threats are cloud services 
typically more effective than local ones?
3. You are opening an online store in a cloud environment. What are three security controls you 
might use to protect customers’ credit card information? Assume that the information will 

need to be stored.4. Define TNO. Name three types of data for which one should want TNO encryption.
5. How do cloud services make DLP more difficult? How can customers wishing to enforce 
DLP mitigate this issue?