826 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
Lawrence Gordon and Martin Loeb [GOR02] argue that for a given potential loss, a 
firm should not necessarily match its amount of investment to the potential impact on 

any resource. Because extremely vulnerable information may also be extremely costly 

to protect, a firm may be better off concentrating its protection on information with 

lower vulnerabilities.
The model that Gordon and Loeb present suggests that to maximize the expected 
benefit from investment to protect information, a firm should spend only a small frac-

tion of the expected loss from a security breach. Spending $1 million to protect against 

a loss of $1 million but with a low expected likelihood is less appropriate than spending 

$10,000 to protect against a highly likely $100,000 breach.
The Economic Impact of CybersecurityUnderstanding the economic impact of cybersecurity issues—prevention, detection, 
mitigation, and recovery—requires models of economic relationships that support good 

decision making. However, realistic models must be based on data derived both from 

the realities of investment in cybersecurity and consequences of actual attacks. In this 

section, we describe the nature of the data needed, the actual data available for use by 

modelers and decision-makers, and the gap between ideal and real.
For any organization, understanding the nature of the cybersecurity threat requires 
knowing at least the following elements: 
• number and types of assets needing protection
• number and types of vulnerabilities that exist in a system 

• number and types of likely threats to a system 
Similarly, understanding the realities of cyber attack also requires knowing the num-
ber and types of attacks that can and do occur, and the costs associated with restoring 

the system to its pre-attack state and then taking action to prevent future attacks.
Both the types of possible attacks and the vulnerabilities of systems to the potential cyber attacks are fairly well understood. However, the larger direct and indirect conse-

quences of such attacks are still largely unknown. We may know that a system has been 

slowed or stopped for a given number of days, but often we have no good sense of the 

repercussions as other systems can no longer rely on the system for its information or 
processing. For instance, an attack on a bank can have short- and long-term effects on 

the travel and credit industries, which in turn can affect food supply. This lack of under-

standing has consequences among interconnected computers.Data to Justify Security ActionInterest in society’s reliance on information technology has spawned a related inter-
est in cybersecurity’s ability to protect our information assets. However, we lack high-

quality descriptive data.
Data are needed to support cybersecurity decision-making at several levels: 
• National and global data address national and international concerns by helping 
users assess how industry sectors interact within their country’s economy and 
