828 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
The Information Security Breaches Survey
 (ISBS) is a particularly rich source 
of information about cybersecurity incidents and practices and provides a good model 

for capturing information about cybersecurity [BIS14]. A collaborative effort between 

the U.K. Department of Trade and Industry and PricewaterhouseCoopers, this survey 

is administered every two years to U.K. businesses large and small. Participants are 

randomly sampled and asked to take part in a structured telephone interview. Addition-

ally, PricewaterhouseCoopers conducted in-depth interviews with a few participants to 

verify results of the general interviews. 
The survey results are reported in four major categories: dependence on informa-
tion technology, the priority given to cybersecurity, trends in security incidents, and 

expenditures on and awareness of cybersecurity. In general, information technology is 

essential to U.K. businesses, so computer security is becoming more and more impor-

tant. According to the 2014 findings,
• The number of security breaches decreased somewhat from 2014. Eighty-one 
percent of large companies and sixty percent of small businesses reported a 

breach.• But breaches were more costly: £600,000 to £1.15 million for large organiza-
tions, and £65,000 to £115,000 for small ones.• Most attacks come from outside the organization and are enabled by malicious 
software.
• Nearly one in ten respondents changed their security behavior as a result of the 
worst breach, and the portion of the IT budget devoted to security is increasing, 

even for the most frugal respondents.
• Seventy percent of respondents did not reveal the nature of their worst attack. So 
the numbers in the survey represent only a fraction of the real situation.
Are the Data Representative?
Sidebar 13-2 lists some of the data sources commonly used by organizations to support 
their economic decision-making about cybersecurity. For each one, it is important to 

ask: How representative are these data? Shari Lawrence Pfleeger et al. [PFL06] have 

evaluated the available data, which collectively paint a mixed picture of the security 

landscape. SIDEBAR 13-2 Example Sources of Security Data
In addition to internally generated data, there are many places to find enter-
prise, national, or international security data. Here are a few examples:
• Australian Cyber Crime and Security Survey: This annual report, 
produced by the Australian government, surveys 135 partner busi-

nesses. It is available at http://apo.org.au/research/cyber-crime-and-

security-survey-report-2013. A baseline was established in 2012, and 

subsequent reports describe changes with respect to the baseline. 

Example finding: “Most of the incidents were in the form of targeted 
