344 Chapter 6  
Networkswire. The equipment needed to pick up signals is inexpensive and easy to obtain, so 
inductance threats are a serious concern for cable-based networks. For the attack to 

work, the intruder must be fairly close to the cable; therefore, this form of attack is lim-

ited to situations with physical access. Cable Splicing If the attacker is not close enough to take advantage of inductance, then more hostile 

measures may be warranted. The easiest form of intercepting a cable is by direct cut. 

If a cable is severed, all service on it stops. As part of the repair, an attacker can splice 

in a secondary cable that then receives a copy of all signals along the primary cable. 

Interceptors can be a little less obvious but still accomplish the same goal. For example, 
SIDEBAR 6-1 Electromagnetic Radiation
Electromagnetic leakage of electronic devices is a known phenomenon that 
has been studied for decades. Military experts worry about the ability of an 

adversary to intercept sensitive information from such sources as the elec-

trical impulses generated as keys are pressed on a keyboard or the mag-

netic radiation from the circuitry that displays images on video screens. To 

intercept such data requires sophisticated electronics equipment capable of 

detecting small changes in low-level signals; consequently, the techniques 

are applicable primarily to very high value situations, such as military ones.
Because the military is the primary affected target, much of the 
research in this area is not public. Two Ukrainian researchers, N.N. Goro-

bets and A.V. Trivaylo, have published [GOR09] results of some recent pub-

lic studies in this area.
They consider current technology: flat panel displays. Conventional 
wisdom has been that old style cathode ray tube (CRT) displays emit detect-

able signals but that the newer flat panel liquid crystal displays (LCDs) are 

“safe.” Instead, the researchers report, certain technical characteristics of 

the interface and display may make LCDs even easier to compromise than 

CRTs. The researchers present an example showing interception of test 

data from 10 meters (30 feet) away, two offices distant.
They also report on experiments involving keyboards. Using different 
techniques, Gorobets and Trivaylo recovered keyboard signals from dis-

tances of 5 to 8 meters (roughly 15 to 25 feet).
These distances are small enough that computers in most offices, 
laboratories, or government installations are probably not at major risk of 

data interception by outsiders. At those distances, the attacker would have 

to be just outside the building (in a rather exposed location) or across the 

hall, both locations that invite questions such as “What in the world are you 

doing?” However, people in coffee shops, waiting rooms, even hotel rooms 

and conference facilities should be aware that the privacy of their computer 

signals is not assured. Is the person sitting at the next table browsing the 

Web or intercepting your keystrokes? We should not ignore the potential 

vulnerability of a wiretap at a distance.
