 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
401  SIDEBAR 6-17  
Beth Israel-Deaconess Hospital Systems DownIn 2002, Boston’s Beth Israel-Deaconess Medical Center was recognized 
by Information Week 
as 16th of the 500 top innovative IT groups in the 
United States. In the same year the hospital suffered a denial-of-service 

incident that sent the entire hospital back to using the paper forms they had 

abandoned years earlier [BER03].On Wednesday, 13 November 2002, the first symptom noticed was 
that ordinarily instantaneous email was taking ten seconds to transmit. The 

network engineers observed that one core network switch was saturated by 

a sudden surge in traffic from an unknown source. To cope with this volume 

from an unknown cause, the engineers began disintegrating the network, 

closing connections to simplify traffic flow in the network and also to help 

identify the source of the problem. Later the engineers would learn that 

closing portions of the network actually exacerbated the problem.
It turned out the network was thrashing because of something called 
a spanning tree protocol loop. The hospital’s network architecture included 

many switches, each of which used a spanning tree algorithm, essentially a map of the shortest route to each known destination in the network. Each 

switch was responsible for testing its connections and communicating with 

neighboring switches to build its own spanning tree. But to avoid endless 

loops (node A determines that the way to node C is to go first to node B, but 

node B thinks the better path is to go through node A, so the communica-

tion loops endlessly between nodes A and B), the algorithm capped the 

path length computation at seven. At Beth Israel, one very large data trans-

fer got caught in a longer loop that slowed traffic considerably. But when 

the engineers started cutting circuits, those actions caused all the switches 

to try to recalculate their spanning tree paths, which in turn slowed traffic 

and caused the engineers to sever even more links, leading in turn to even 

more switch recalculations.
A significant part of the problem was that the network design was 
appropriate for 1996, when it was initially installed, but the network archi-

tecture had not been upgraded to account either for major expansion, as 

Beth Israel brought in several regional hospitals to join its IT network, or 

for advances in technology, as routers replaced switches in large network 

segments with complex connectivity. The 1996 network was functioning 

adequately in 2002 at times of low stress, but a major burst of network traf-

fic flooded the network, denying prompt access to all users.
Lab test requests, patient record charts, prescription orders, digi-
tal x-ray results, billing records, all data that would normally have been 

handled easily electronically suddenly ceased working. On Thursday 

14 November the administrators decided to give up on the entire elec-
tronic system to allow network engineers full access to the network. The 

hospital reverted to using paper forms, obviously slower and more cumber-

some. But even then, the network was so congested that it was difficult to 
(continues)