568 Chapter 8  
Cloud ComputingJust making the logs available is not enough, however. Send logs to a SIEM for stor-
age and analysis, and take great care to segregate the SIEM and its storage from the 

cloud service to whatever extent is practical. For the SIEM to be useful, it needs a near-

real-time stream of log data from the cloud service, but it also needs to be protected 

from the malicious influence of any attacker who may have infiltrated the cloud service. 

Identify and eliminate any potential paths that might allow an intruder in the cloud sys-

tem to delete or modify data from your SIEM or its underlying storage.8.4 CLOUD IDENTITY MANAGEMENT
One of the common challenges organizations face when migrating to public cloud ser-

vices is identity management. Cloud customers often move sensitive data and func-

tionality into cloud environments, and as a result they need a way to authenticate and 

authorize users to access those resources in the cloud. Identity management also pro-

tects cloud providers: They need to ensure that users accessing their services are legiti-

mate members of customer organizations rather than impostors.
The obvious way to handle the cloud identity management problem is to have 
each user individually sign up for a user account at each cloud provider. This approach, 

unfortunately, is fraught with problems. One issue is that it creates new opportunities 

for vulnerability. Cloud providers, like many companies, sometimes get hacked, and are 

not necessarily good at protecting users’ passwords and personal information. Requiring 

users to create new accounts at many different cloud providers multiplies those users’ 

odds of having personal information stolen and, if those users reuse passwords from 

other services, that practice can expose them to much greater harm. As we describe in 

Chapter 2, many users are unskilled at choosing and managing passwords, and giving 

them more passwords to manage, particularly when sensitive data and functions are at 

risk, is a dangerous proposition. When users setup the same weak password for their 

Facebook and Twitter accounts, they put only themselves in harm’s way. The situation 

is entirely different when a developer uses the same weak password on four different 

software development projects involving different companies, different partnerships, 

and different sensitive data.
Relying on cloud providers for identity management also limits the control an orga-
nization can exert to protect the cloud-based user accounts: Many cloud providers will 

allow users to choose weak passwords or to easily reset passwords using basic personal 

information (recall the attack on Sarah Palin’s email described in Chapter 2). Few cloud 

providers offer options for multifactor authentication and, even if that were more com-

monplace, users would justifiably rebel at having to carry a pocketful of access tokens 

for a variety of cloud services.
Aside from these issues is one of administration: How does an organization disable 
all of a user’s accounts once that user no longer needs access to them, either because of 

departure from the organization or a change in job duties? As we described in Chapter 

2, assigning and revoking access privileges is difficult to manage within a single orga-

nization; the problem becomes more challenging with multiple cloud providers. Large 

organizations may use tens or even hundreds of cloud service providers, and tracking 
