 Section 11.5  Computer Crime 
735  Under the rules of evidence, courts prefer the best version of a piece of evidence 
(called the best evidence rule). An original document is preferable to a copy, but the 

original may be unavailable. As long as the original is unavailable for some reason 

other than the fault of the party presenting the evidence, a copy is acceptable. A copy is 

strengthened if someone testifies, for example, to having heard the parties agreeing to 

the terms of the contract the day before, or someone recognizes and attests to the sig-

natures on the copy. Business records are perfectly acceptable as evidence. A computer 

printout showing activity around a 

time period of interest is solid evi-

dence, especially if a system admin-
istrator or other person in charge 

can testify that the system generates 
this log data continually, and this 

printout is an accurate depiction of 

the contents of the log file.
The biggest difficulty with computer-based evidence in court is demonstrating the 
authenticity of the evidence. Law enforcement officials operate under a chain of cus-

tody requirement: From the moment a piece of evidence is taken until it is presented in 

court, they track clearly and completely the order and identities of the people who had 

personal custody of that object. The reason for the chain of custody is to ensure that 

nobody has had the opportunity to alter the evidence in any way before its presentation 

in court. With computer-based evidence, it can be difficult to establish a chain of custody. If a 
crime occurred on Monday but was not discovered until Wednesday, who can verify that 

the log file was not altered? In fact, it probably was altered many times as different pro-

cesses generated log entries. The issue is to demonstrate convincingly that the log entry 

for 2:37 on Monday does in fact correspond to the event that took place at that time on 

Monday, not some attempt on Thursday to plant a false clue long after the crime took 

place. Both system administrators and expert witnesses can testify as to their opinion of 

the accuracy of the log’s contents.
Forensic analysis
 is a field in which computer security experts examine artifacts 
such as disk drives, log files, program code, even volatile memory, to discern facts about 

data contained. The term “microscope and tweezers” that we introduced in Chapter 3 

(courtesy of Jerome Saltzer) well characterizes the painstaking effort these analysts 

must do to satisfy themselves and then the court what the retained data are and mean.
Threats to Integrity and Confidentiality
The integrity and secrecy of data are also issues in many court cases. Parker and Nycom 
[PAR84] describe a case in which a trespasser gained remote access to a computing sys-

tem. The computing system contained confidential records about people, and the integ-

rity of the data was important. The prosecuti
on of this case had to be phrased in terms of 
theft of computer time and valued as such, even though that was insignificant compared 

with loss of privacy and integrity. Why? Because the law as written recognized theft of 

computer time as a loss, but not loss of privacy or destruction of data.
All pieces of evidence contribute to a 
judge’s or jury’s weighing the evidence. 

Credible evidence carries more weight in 

reaching a conclusion.
