120 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
This model works well within a company because there is always someone common 
to any two employees, even if the two employees are in different divisions so that the 

only common person is the president. The process bogs down, however, if Ann, Bill, 

Camilla, Betty, and Andrew all have to be available whenever Ann and Andrew want to 

communicate. If Betty is away on a business trip or Bill is off sick, the protocol falters. 

It also does not work well if the president cannot get any meaningful work done because 

every day is occupied with handling forms 632a.
To address the first of these problems, Andrew can ask for his complete chain of 
forms 632a from the president down to him. Andrew can then give a copy of this full set 

to anyone in the company who wants his key. Instead of working from the bottom up to 

a common point, Andrew starts at the top and documents his full chain. He gets these 

signatures any time his superiors are available, so they do not need to be available when 

he wants to give away his authenticated public key.
We can resolve the second problem by reversing the process. Instead of starting at 
the bottom (with task members) and working to the top of the tree (the president), we 

start at the top. Andrew thus has a preauthenticated public key for unlimited use in the 

future. Suppose the expanded structure of our hypothetical company, showing the presi-

dent and other levels, is as illustrated in Figure 2-30.
The president creates a letter for each division manager saying “I am Edward, the 
president, I attest to the identity of division manager Diana, whom I know personally, 

and I trust Diana to attest to the identities of her subordinates.” Each division manager 

does similarly, copying the president’s letter with each letter the manager creates, and 

so on. Andrew receives a packet of letters, from the president down through his task 

group leader, each letter linked by name to the next. If every employee in the com-

pany receives such a packet, any two employees who want to exchange authenticated 

keys need only compare each other’s packets; both packets will have at least Edward in 

common, perhaps some other managers below Edward, and at some point will deviate. 

Andrew and Ann, for example, could compare their chains, determine that they were the 

same through Camilla, and trace just from Camilla down. Andrew knows the chain from 

Edward to Camilla is authentic because it is identical to his chain, and Ann knows the 
CamillaBettyAndrew
AnnBillBetty’s
632aCamilla’s
632aBetty’s
632aCamilla’s
632aBetty’s
632aBill’s
632aFIGURE 2-29 Key Relationships in a Certificate
