 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
87  encryption creates only the illusion of protection, we also look at how encryption can 
fail. We briefly describe techniques used to break through the protective cover to void 

security. Building on these basic types of encryption, we show how to combine them to 

securely address several general problems of computing and communicating.
Problems Addressed by Encryption
Sometimes we describe encryption in the context of sending secret messages. This 

framing is just for ease of description: The same concepts apply to protecting a file of 

data or sensitive information in memory. So when we talk about sending a message, you 

should also think of protecting any digital object for access only by authorized people.
Consider the steps involved in sending messages from a 
sender, S, to a recipient
, R. If S entrusts the message to 
T, who then delivers it to 
R, T then becomes the 
trans-mission medium. If an outsider, 
O, wants to access the message (to read, change, or 
even destroy it), we call 
O an 
interceptor
 or 
intruder. Any time after 
S transmits the 
message via T, it is vulnerable to exploitation, and 
O might try to access it in any of the 
following ways:
• block
 it, by preventing its reaching R, thereby affecting the availability of the 
message• intercept
 it, by reading or listening to the message, thereby affecting the confi-
dentiality of the message• modify it, by seizing the message and changing it in some way, affecting the 
message’s integrity
• fabricate an authentic-looking message, arranging for it to be delivered as if it 
came from S, thereby also affecting the integrity of the message
As you can see, a message’s vulnerabilities reflect the four possible security failures 
we identified in Chapter l. Fortunately, encryption is a technique that can address all 

these problems. Encryption is a means of maintaining secure data in an insecure envi-

ronment. In this book, we study encryption as a security technique, and we see how it 

is used in protecting programs, databases, networks, and electronic communications.
Terminology
Encryption is the process of encoding a message so that its meaning is not obvious; 
decryption is the reverse process, transforming an encrypted message back into its nor-
mal, original form. Alternatively, the terms 
encode and 
decode or 
encipher and 
decipher are used instead of encrypt and decrypt.2 That is, we say we encode, encrypt, or encipher 
the original message to hide its meaning. Then, we decode, decrypt, or decipher it to reveal 

the original message. A system for encryption and decryption is called a 
cryptosystem.2. There are slight differences in the meanings of these three pairs of words, although they are not significant 
in the context of this discussion. Strictly speaking, 
encoding is the process of translating entire words or 
phrases to other words or phrases, whereas 
enciphering is translating letters or symbols individually; 
encryption is the group term that covers both encoding and enciphering.
