644 Chapter 9  
Privacy9.8 WHERE THE FIELD IS HEADED
Nissenbaum [NIS11] describes the evolution of the Internet, “from an esoteric utility 
for sharing computer resources and data sets, intended for use by relatively few special-

ists, to a ubiquitous, multifunctional medium used by millions world-wide.” It has been 

conceptualized as “information superhighway, enabling swift flows of information and 

commerce; to cyberspace, a new frontier immune from the laws of any land; to Web 2.0, 

a meeting place overflowing with services and content, much of it generated by users 

themselves.” The privacy aspects of security are expanding rapidly, as this chapter has 

indicated. A question we as computer scientists must ask ourselves is, ”Just because we 

can do something, should we?” We can combine massive amounts of data, but is the 

gain from that worth the risk?
Despite the best efforts of researchers such as Sweeney [SWE04], people make 
inadequate attempts to protect privacy and then express surprise when personal pri-

vacy is violated. The topic of anonymizing data securely, to meet the combined needs 

of researching demographics and protecting privacy, is certain to continue to expand. 

There are several promising results in the area of anonymizing data in databases for 

privacy-preserving data mining. Clifton and colleagues [CLI03, KAN04, VAI04] and 

Malin and Sweeney [MAL02] are leading some important efforts.
A major multinational organization needs to strongly encourage countries— 
especially the United States—to develop a comprehensive framework for citizens’ data 

privacy worldwide. The computer security community can and should continue to dem-

onstrate the importance of that problem, but ultimately the answers here will have to be 

political. The various privacy rights organizations, such as the Center for Democracy 

and Technology, the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), Privacy.Org, and 

Privacy International, and professional computing societies, such as IEEE and ACM, 

must continue their efforts.
Internet privacy will not occur by popular demand. Advertisers, content providers, 
spammers, and fraudsters derive too many advantages from collection of online data 

to change their ways. Because some of the same techniques are used by information 

trackers and malicious attackers, good protection against malicious code will also have 

a positive impact on personal Internet privacy. So, too, will increased user knowledge.
One mark of the degree of interest in a topic is whether entire workshops and confer-
ences address it. The Computers Freedom and Privacy conference has been held annu-

ally since 1991 (see http://www.cfp.org/). Other conferences focus on narrower topics, 

such as data mining or privacy of elections. Professional societies such as ACM, IEEE, 

and SIAM sponsor these conferences and promote them regularly on their websites.
Avi Rubin of Johns Hopkins University challenges his students to explore novel 
attacks on and protections for privacy. Because of his work in the security of electronic 

voting, he has headed a National Science Foundation project to improve the reliability 

and trustworthiness of electronic voting. The Johns Hopkins Information Security Insti-

tute, of which Rubin is Technical Director, has produced several good studies of privacy 

vulnerabilities.Annie Antón of Georgia Institute of Technology has developed tools to analyze pri-
vacy policies. She collaborates with ThePrivacyPlace.Org, an interdisciplinary research 
