70 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
The difference between these two approaches is that federated identity management 
involves a single identity management module that replaces identification and authenti-

cation in all other systems. Thus all these systems invoke the identity management mod-

ule. With single sign-on, systems 

still call for individual identification 

and authentication, but the umbrella 

task performs those interactions on 
behalf of the user.
Multifactor AuthenticationThe single-factor authentication approaches discussed in this chapter offer advantages 

and disadvantages. For example, a token works only as long as you do not give it away 

(or lose it or have it stolen), and password use fails if someone can see you enter your 

password by peering over your shoulder. We can compensate for the limitation of one 

form of authentication by combining it with another form.Identity cards, such as a driver’s license, often contain a picture and signature. The 
card itself is a token, but anyone seeing that card can compare your face to the picture 

and confirm that the card belongs to you. Or the person can ask you to write your name 

and can compare signatures. In that way, the authentication is both token based and bio-

metric (because your appearance and the way you sign your name are innate properties 

of you). Notice that your credit card has a space for your signature on the back, but in 

the United States few merchants compare that signature to the sales slip you sign. Hav-

ing authentication factors available does not necessarily mean we use them.
As long as the process does not become too onerous, authentication can use two, 
three, four, or more factors. For example, to access something, you must type a secret 

code, slide your badge, and hold your hand on a plate. Combining authentication information is called multifactor authentication. Two 
forms of authentication (which is, not surprisingly, known as 
two-factor authentica-
tion) are presumed to be better than one, assuming of course that the two forms are 
strong. But as the number of forms increases, so also does the user’s inconvenience. 

Each authentication factor requires the system and its administrators and the users to 

manage more security information. We assume that more factors imply higher confi-

dence, although few studies support that assumption. And two kinds of authentication 

imply two pieces of software and perhaps two kinds of readers, as well as the time to 

perform two authentications. Indeed, even if multifactor authentication is superior to 

single factor, we do not know which value of 
n makes 
n-factor authentication opti-
mal. From a usability point of view, large values of 
n may lead to user frustration and 
reduced security, as shown in Sidebar 2-13.
Secure Authentication
Passwords, biometrics, and tokens can all participate in secure authentication. Of 

course, simply using any or all of them is no guarantee that an authentication approach 

will be secure. To achieve true security, we need to think carefully about the problem we 

are trying to solve and the tools we have; we also need to think about blocking possible 

attacks and attackers.
Single sign-on takes over sign-on and 
authentication to several independent 
systems for a user.
