430 Chapter 6  
Networksreported that in 2013, a botnet of 
1,000 hosts could be rented for 

$25–$120 US, or $200–$500 US for 
10,000 hosts for 24 hours.Opt-In BotnetsHave a favorite cause? Want to protest against [name your outrage] but fear your lone 
voice will not be heard? Join with a group of like-minded individuals to launch a dis-

tributed denial-of-service attack against the outrage.
Yes, there are now postings for affinity groups to join together in protest. You down-
load and install an attack script and show up at 11:00 am (GMT) Tuesday to protest by 

pointing your attacking computer at x.com. Join in when you want, drop out when you 
(or your computer) are tired. Join the movement! The only thing lacking is the pizza 

party after the demonstration. Sorry, you will have to buy your own.
Malicious Autonomous Mobile AgentsBots belong to a class of code known more generally as 
malicious autonomous mobile agents. Working largely on their own, these programs can infect computers anywhere 
they can access, causing denial of service as well as other kinds of harm. Of course, 

code does not develop, appear, or mutate on its own; there has to be a developer involved 

initially to set up the process and, usually, to establish a scheme for updates. Such an 

agent is sometimes called an inoculation agent.As bots or agents execute and acquire updates, not every agent will be updated at 
once. One agent may be on a system that is powered off, another on a system that 

currently has no external network connectivity, and still another may be running in a 

constrained resource domain. Thus, as agents run in and out of contact with their update 

services, some will be up to date and others will be running older versions. The problem 

of coordinating an army of disparate agents is an active research topic, based on the 

Byzantine generals problem [LAM82].Autonomous Mobile Protective Agents
Suppose a security engineer decodes the logic of an agent; the engineer might then 

enlist the agent to fight for the good guys by modifying it to look normal to its siblings 

but in fact to spread a counterinfection. So, for example, a modified agent might look 

for other hostile agents and pass them an “update” that in fact disabled them.
This concept is not as far-fetched as it sounds. In the same way that attackers have 
developed networks for harm, security researchers have postulated how good agents 

could help heal after a malicious code infection.A German teenager, Sven Jaschen, wrote and released a worm called NetSky in 
February 2004. He claimed his intention was to remove infections of the widespread 

MyDoom and Bagle worms from infected computers by closing the vulnerabilities those 

worms exploit. NetSky spread by email. However, Jaschen soon became engaged in a 
Botnet operators make money by 
renting compromised hosts for DDoS or 

other activity. The rent is mostly profit.
