 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
361  Thus, a network differs significantly from a stand-alone, local environment. Network 
characteristics significantly increase the security risk.
Modification, Fabrication: Data Corruption Eavesdropping is certainly a significant threat, and it is at the heart of major incidents of 

theft of trade secrets or espionage. But interception is a passive threat: Communication 

goes on normally, except that a hidden third party has listened in, too.
If you remember from Chapter 1, modification and fabrication are also computer 
security concerns, and they apply to networking, as well. The threat is that a communi-

cation will be changed during transmission. Sometimes the act involves modifying data 

en route; other times it entails crafting new content or repeating an existing communi-

cation. These three attacks are called modification, insertion, and replay, respectively. 

Such attacks can be malicious or not, induced or from natural causes.People often receive incorrect or corrupted data: a minor misspelling of a name, an 
obvious typographic error, a mistaken entry on a list. If you watch real-time closed-

captioning on television, sometimes you see normal text degenerate to gibberish and 

then return to normal after a short time. Mistakes like this happen, and we either contact 

someone for a correction if the issue is serious or ignore it otherwise. Errors occur so 
frequently that we sometimes fail even to notice them.
In Figure 6-9 we remind you of some of the sources of data corruption; we have 
previously described most of these causes. You should keep in mind that data corrup-

tion can be intentional or unintentional, from a malicious or nonmalicious source, and Perhaps most interesting, his system forced connected phones to 
use the older 2G protocol; Paget also said his system, in negotiating capa-

bilities with the mobile phone, could force the phone not to use encryption 

(which, of course, facilitated interception). 
Paget’s purpose for the demonstration was to show how easily an 
attacker could intercept communications in the mobile network. “The main 

problem is that GSM is broken. You have 3G and all of these later protocols 

with problems for GSM that have been known for decades. It’s about time 

we move on,” Paget said [HIG10].People did move on . . . but not in the way Paget meant. In December 
2010, two researchers at the Chaos Computer Club Congress in Berlin, 

Germany, demonstrated their ability to intercept GSM calls. Karsten Nohl 

and Sylvain Munaut used inexpensive Motorola mobile phones to intercept 

calls in progress. The Motorola phones contained firmware that was easy to 

replace, turning the phone into an interceptor that received all traffic within 

range. From that universe they could isolate any single phone’s communi-

cation. Using a huge prebuilt table of encryption keys, they determined the 

specific key used for that communication stream and ultimately intercepted 

plaintext of the entire conversation.
