 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
375  predefined radio frequencies, you can expect an eavesdropping attacker to try to intercept 
and impersonate. Pieces to protect are 

finding the access point, authenticat-

ing the remote computer to the access 

point, and vice versa, and protecting 

the communication stream.Wireless communication has other vulnerabilities, as related in Sidebar 6-8.
Wireless communication will never be 

as secure as wired, because the exposed 

signal is more vulnerable.
SIDEBAR 6-8 Wireless Interceptions
The New Zealand Herald [GRI02] reports that a major telecommunications 
company was forced to shut down its mobile email service because of a 

security flaw in its wireless network software. The flaw affected users on the 

company’s network who were sending email on their WAP-enabled (wire-

less applications protocol) mobile phones.
The vulnerability occurred when the user finished an email session. 
In fact, the software did not end the WAP session for 60 more seconds. If 

a second network customer were to initiate an email session within those 

60 seconds and be connected to the same port as the first customer, the 

second customer could then view the first customer’s message.
The company blamed third-party software provided by a mobile por-
tal. Nevertheless, the telecommunications company was highly embar-

rassed, especially because it “perceived security issues with wireless 

networks” to be “a major factor threatening to hold the [wireless] technol-

ogy’s development back.” [GRI02]
Anyone with a wireless network card can search for an available net-
work. Security consultant Chris O’Ferrell has been able to connect to wire-

less networks in Washington D.C. from outside a Senate office building, 

the Supreme Court, and the Pentagon [NOG02]; others join networks in 

airports, on planes, and at coffee shops. Both the Observer product from 

Network Instruments and IBM’s Wireless Security Analyzer can locate open 

wireless connections on a network so that a security administrator can 

know a network is accessible for wireless access.
And then some wireless LAN users refuse to shut off or protect their 
service. Retailer BestBuy was embarrassed by a customer who bought a 
wireless product; while in the parking lot, he installed it in his laptop com-

puter. Much to his surprise, he found he could connect to the store’s wire-

less network. BestBuy subsequently took all its wireless cash registers 

offline. But the CVS pharmacy chain announced plans to continue use of 

wireless networks in all 4100 of its stores, arguing “We use wireless technol-

ogy strictly for internal item management. If we were to ever move in the 

direction of transmitting [customer] information via in-store wireless LANs, 

we would encrypt the data” [BRE02a]. In too many cases nobody remem-

bers the initial intentions to protect data when someone changes an appli-

cation years later.
