608 Chapter 9  
PrivacyMinow, former chair of the Federal Communications Commission, produced its report 
in 2004 [TAP04]. Although initially asked to review privacy and data collection within 

only the Defense Department, the committee found it impossible to separate the 

Defense Department from the rest of government. Consequently, its descriptions apply 

to the Federal government as a whole.
Among the recognized risks when government acquires data from other parties are 
these:• data error
: ranges from transcription errors to incorrect analysis• inaccurate
 linking: two or more data items are correct but are incorrectly linked 
by a presumed common element• difference
 of form and content: precision, accuracy, format, and semantic errors
• purposely wrong
: collected from a source that intentionally provides incorrect 
data, such as a forged identity card or a false address given to mislead
• false accusation: an incorrect or out-of-date conclusion that the government has 
no data to verify or reject, for example, delinquency in paying state taxes
• mission creep
: data acquired for one purpose that leads to a broader use because the data will support that mission• poorly protected
: data of questionable integrity because of the way they have 
been managed and handledSteps to Protect Against Privacy Loss
The committee recommended several steps the government can take to help safeguard 
private data:
• Data minimization. Obtain the least data necessary for the task. For example, if 
the goal is to study the spread of a disease, only the condition, date, and vague 

location (city or county) may suffice; the name or contact information of the 

patient may be unnecessary.
• Data anonymization. Where possible, replace identifying information with 
untraceable codes (such as a record number). But make sure those codes cannot 

be linked to another database that reveals sensitive data.
• Auditing.
 Record who has accessed data and when, both to help identify respon-
sible parties in the event of a breach and to document the extent of damage. 
• Security and controlled access.
 Adequately protect and control access to sensi-
tive data.
• Training
. Ensure that people accessing data understand what to protect and how 
to do so.• Quality.
 Take into account the purpose for which data were collected, how 
they were stored, their age, and similar factors to determine the usefulness of 

the data.• Restricted usage. 
As distinct from controlling access, review all proposed uses 
of the data to determine if those uses are consistent with the purpose for which 