226 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingPeople outside the professional security community still find it appealing to find and 
fix security problems as single aberrations. However, security professionals recommend 

a more structured and careful approach to developing secure code.
Security by ObscurityComputer security experts use the term 
security by or through obscurity
 to describe 
the ineffective countermeasure of assuming the attacker will not find a vulnerability. 

Security by obscurity is the belief that a system can be secure as long as nobody outside 
its implementation group is told anything about its internal mechanisms. Hiding account 

passwords in binary files or scripts with the presumption that nobody will ever find them 

is a prime case. Another example of faulty obscurity is described in Sidebar 3-14, in 
which deleted text is not truly deleted. System owners assume an attacker will never 

guess, find, or deduce anything not revealed openly. Think, for example, of the dialer 

program described earlier in this 

chapter. The developer of that util-

ity might have thought that hiding 

the 100-digit limitation would keep 

it from being found or used. Obvi-

ously that assumption was wrong.
Things meant to stay hidden seldom do. 
Attackers find and exploit many hidden 
things.SIDEBAR 3-14 Hidden, But Not Forgotten
When is something gone? When you press the delete key, it goes away, 
right? Wrong.
By now you know that deleted files are not really deleted; they are 
moved to the recycle bin. Deleted mail messages go to the trash folder. 

And temporary Internet pages hang around for a few days in a history 

folder waiting for repeated interest. But you expect keystrokes to disappear 

with the delete key.
Microsoft Word saves all changes and comments since a document 
was created. Suppose you and a colleague collaborate on a document, 

you refer to someone else’s work, and your colleague inserts the comment 

“this research is rubbish.” You concur, so you delete the reference and your 

colleague’s comment. Then you submit the paper to a journal for review 

and, as luck would have it, your paper is sent to the author whose work you 
disparaged. Then the reviewer happens to turn on change marking and 

finds not just the deleted reference but also your colleague’s deleted com-

ment. (See [BYE04].) If you really wanted to remove that text, you should 

have used the Microsoft Hidden Data Removal Tool. (Of course, inspecting 

the file with a binary editor is the only way you can be sure the offending 

text is truly gone.) The Adobe PDF document format is a simpler format intended to pro-
vide a platform-independent way to display (and print) documents. Some 

people convert a Word document to PDF to eliminate hidden sensitive data. 
