766 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethics3. Would you hire Goli (the computer security consultant and hacker from incident VIII) to 
protect your computer system? How would you respond if she came to you describing a vul-

nerability in your system and offering to help you fix it? Explain your answer.
4. Prepare an argument for or against the proposition that the following is ethical behavior. You 
and some friends decide to share music from CDs. You copy some to your computer and then 

burn identical copies for your friends. Does the argument change if the exchange is done with 

unknown people, through an anonymous file-sharing service on the order of Napster?
5. Prepare an argument for or against the proposition that the following is ethical behavior. 
While visiting a friend in another city you turn on your laptop and your wireless adapter 

senses a strong signal of an unsecured access point named siren-island. You connect to it and 

use Internet access throughout the weekend. Does the argument change if the time period is 

not just a weekend but unlimited (you are not just visiting but you live there) and the access 

point name obviously relates to the person who lives in the next apartment?
6. You acquire a network vulnerability scanning tool and try it out on a network address seg-
ment belonging to people at your university or business. The scanner identifies one computer 

named PrinceHal that has many serious vulnerabilities. You deduce to whom the machine 

belongs. Explain the ethical implications of (a) telling the owner what you have found,  

(b) telling your local administrator or security officer what you have found, (c) exploiting 

one of the relatively minor vulnerabilities to show the owner how serious the exposure is,  

(d) exploiting a relatively minor vulnerability as a prank without telling the owner, (e) telling 

the owner what you have found and then demanding money for details on the vulnerabili-

ties, (f) using one of the vulnerabilities to acquire control of the machine, downloading and 

installing patches and changing settings to address all the vulnerabilities, and never telling 

anyone what you have done.
7. Prepare an argument for or against the proposition that the following is ethical behavior. You 
apply for admission to graduate school. The school says it will inform applicants of their 

status on 15 March by posting a coded list of acceptances and rejections. On 9 March you 
discover that the list is already posted; you have to address it by a specific URL instead of 

just clicking a button. You post a notice to a widely read bulletin board advising others of 

the exposure. Does the argument change if the date on which you discover the web site is 

9 February, not 9 March? Does the argument change if the people on the list are individually 

identifiable? Does the argument change if the list is a set of grades for a class (and the people 

are individually identifiable)? Does the argument change if the list is an ordered list of liver 

transplant candidates (and the people are individually identifiable)? (Note: after you have 

prepared your argument, read [SMI05].)
8. Prepare an argument for or against the proposition that the following is ethical behavior. 
Without telling anyone, your ISP starts tracking every HTTP exchange from all its custom-

ers’ computers. They use the data to determine heavy traffic routes in order to improve ser-

vice to frequently accessed sites, such as search engines. Does the argument change if the 

purpose is to derive revenue by selling the data to advertisers seeking to determine popularity 

of different sites? Does the argument change if the purpose is to make traffic records avail-

able for government analysis?
9. Someone you know has a blog which, although not directly listed on her home page, you 
found by a simple search query. In her blog she writes some really explicit descriptions of a 

relationship with another friend of yours. Explain the ethical implications of (a) your reading 
the blog, (b) your telling the second friend about it, (c) your telling other friends about it, 
(d) your posting a link to it on your home page.