328 Chapter 5  
Operating Systemsrigor rising until at the higher levels the practices are more stringent and compliance is 
verified by an independent testing laboratory.
The second breakthrough of the Common Criteria was to leave functionality unlim-
ited. With hindsight, the Orange Book writers should have realized that building a 

design framework around multiuser, stand-alone mainframe computing was doomed if 

ever the computing paradigm shifted. That shift occurred almost as soon as the Orange 

Book was adopted as a Defense Department standard, unfortunately coinciding with the 

rise of the personal computer and networking.
Authors of the Common Criteria accepted that they could not foresee the kinds of 
products to be created in the future. Thus, they allowed for an open-ended set of 
protec-
tion profiles
 that could specify security features for particular new product types, such 
as firewalls or intrusion detection devices, neither of which was commercially available 

when the Orange Book was written.
 As this book is written, the Common Criteria has only a single protection profile 
for operating systems (those have remained relatively stable over time) but there are 

50 profiles for integrated circuits 

and smart card devices, showing the 

blossoming of such products. Some 

figures on Common Criteria-cer-

tified products as of mid-2014 are 

shown in Tables 5-3 and 5-4.
This brief overview of trusted 
systems has explored qualities of an operating system that let it enforce security reli-

ably. As you have learned, operating systems are essential to secure computing because 

they (and physical hardware) control access to all resources. The reference monitor 

must be unbypassable: If someone can evade the access control mechanism, there is 

no control.Next we turn to a fatal attack on operating systems, the rootkit. Figuratively, a root-
kit is malicious code that gets beneath an operating system, in a layer between it and Common Criteria: Multinational 
standard for security evaluation; 

separates criteria into functionality  
and effectiveness
TABLE 5-3 
Evaluated Products by Year
 Year
Number of Certified Products
2011264
2012302

2013242

2014 (partial year)a66All years: 1999–20141991
a  Current data on products certified under the 
Common Criteria scheme are available at  

http://www.commoncriteriaportal.org/.
TABLE 5-4 
Evaluated Products by Type (partial list)
 Product Type
Number of  Certified Products
Access control83
Biometric authentication3

Boundary protection122

Database management system46

Network and network device203

Operating system104
