 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
409  inspect (and perhaps open) everything your neighbor should have received, and you 
would block all deliveries to your neighbor. This addressing change would facilitate 

interception and denial of service. A similar situation occurs with network addresses, as 

we now describe.
DNS SpoofingAt the heart of Internet addressing is a protocol called DNS or 
Domain Name System protocol. DNS is the database of translations of Internet names to addresses, and the 
DNS protocol resolves the name to an address. For efficiency, a DNS server builds a 

cache of recently used domain names; with an attack called DNS poisoning, attackers 

try to insert inaccurate entries into that cache so that future requests are redirected to an 
address the attacker has chosen.
A standard DNS query and response is shown in Figure 6-23, in which the user 
requests a translation of the URL microsoft.com, and the name server responds with the 

address 207.46.197.32.DNS service is implemented on a remote server, so a man-in-the-middle attack 
involves the attacker’s intercepting and replying to a query before the real DNS server 

can respond. Such a situation, called DNS spoofing,
 is shown in Figure 6-24. In that 
example, the attacker quickly responds with address 7.0.1.1 (presumably an address 

over which the attacker has control). With that change the attacker can enter into the 

middle of the user’s communication with www.microsoft.com, forwarding whatever 

the attacker wants to the real Micro-

soft website. The user’s browser 

disregards the correct response from 

the DNS server that arrives after the 

browser has already accepted the 

false address from the attacker.
Rerouting Routing
One example of a man-in-the-middle attack involves one node’s redirecting a network 
so that all traffic flows through the attacking node, leading to a potential for inter-

ception. Network routers are a loose confederation of mutually trusting components 

that arrange for delivery of all data through a network, including the Internet. The 
Please convert www.microsoft.com
207.46.197.32UserDNS server
FIGURE 6-23 Resolving a Domain Name to an Address
Any server can respond to a DNS lookup 
request; the first responder wins. Being 

first lets an attacker redirect traffic.
