 Section 5.2  Security in the Design of Operating Systems 
325  Object ReuseOne way that a computing system maintains its efficiency is to reuse objects. The oper-
ating system controls resource allocation, and as a resource is freed for use by other 

users or programs, the operating system permits the next user or program to access 

the resource. But reusable objects must be carefully controlled, lest they create a seri-

ous vulnerability. To see why, consider what happens when a new file is created. Usu-

ally, space for the file comes from a pool of freed, previously used space on a disk, in 

memory, or on another storage device. Released space is returned to the pool “dirty,” 

that is, still containing the data from the previous user. Because most users would write 

to a file before trying to read from it, the new user’s data obliterate the previous owner’s, 

so there is no inappropriate disclo-

sure of the previous user’s informa-

tion. However, a malicious user may 

claim a large amount of space and 

then scavenge for sensitive data by 

reading before writing. This kind of 

attack is called object reuse
.To prevent object reuse leakage, operating systems clear (that is, overwrite) all space 
to be reassigned before allowing the next user to access it. Magnetic media are particu-

larly vulnerable to this threat. Very precise and expensive equipment can sometimes 

separate the most recent data from the data previously recorded, from the data before 

that, and so forth. This threat, called 
magnetic remanence
, is beyond the scope of this 
book. For more information, see [NCS91b]. In any case, the operating system must take 

responsibility for “cleaning” the resource before permitting access to it. AuditTrusted systems must also track any security relevant changes, such as installation of 
new programs or modification to the operating system. The audit log must be protected 

against tampering, modification, or deletion other than by an authenticated security 

administrator. Furthermore, the audit log must be active throughout system operation. If 

the audit medium fills to capacity (for example, if audit records written to a disk use all 

space on the disk), the system is to shut down.
The Results of Trusted Systems Research
The original purpose of the Orange Book was to ensure a range of trustworthy, security-

enforcing products, primarily for use to protect military sensitive information for the 
obtain the card data and PIN, allowing reuse of the data. The vulnerabili-
ties involved both physical tampering and interception. These research-

ers designed and implemented only a proof-of-concept demonstration of 

the flaw, so the problem caused no real harm of which we are aware. Still, 

designers not focused on security weaknesses produce numerous prod-

ucts in widespread use.
Object sanitization ensures no leakage 
of data if a subject uses a memory 
object released by another subject.
