382 Chapter 6  
Networksmight try to forge data appearing to come from the host or client. Because the client and 
server can receive each other’s signals, the attacker cannot readily receive something 

from the client, modify it, and transmit the modified version before the client’s original 

signal gets to the server. However, the attacker can try to take over a communication 

stream by force. WiFi radio receivers that receive two signals prefer the stronger one. So 

if a rogue access point intercepts a signal from a client and sends a strong signal back, 
appearing to come from the server’s access point, the rogue may be able to commandeer 

the communications stream.Availability
Availability involves three potential problems. First, the most obvious, occurs when a 
component of a wireless communication stops working because hardware fails, power 

is lost, or some other catastrophe strikes. A second problem of availability is loss of 

some but not all access, typically manifested as slow or degraded service. Service can 

be slow because of interference, for example, if tree leaves in a wind interfere with 

frame transmission, so the receiving end recognizes loss of some data and must request 

and wait for retransmission. Service can also be slow if the demand for service exceeds 

the capacity of the receiving end, so either some service requests are dropped or the 

receiver handles all requests slowly.
Wireless communication also admits a third problem: the possibility of 
rogue net-
work connection
. Some WiFi access points are known as public hot spots and are 
intentionally available to anyone who wants to connect. But other private owners do 

not want to share their access with anybody in range. Although shared service may not 

be noticed, it is still inappropriate. A user wanting free Internet access can often get it 

simply by finding a wireless LAN offering DHCP service. Free does not necessarily 

imply secure, as described in Sidebar 6-11. In this case, although service is available, 

the security of that service may be limited. As the adage tells us, sometimes you get 

what you pay for.
SIDEBAR 6-11 A Network Dating Service?
Searching for open wireless networks within range is called 
war driving. To 
find open networks you need only a computer equipped with a wireless net-

work receiver. Similar to bird sighting events, four World Wide War Driving 

events were held (see http://www.worldwidewardrive.org/), two in 2002, and 

one each in 2003 and 2004. The goal was to identify as many different open 

wireless access points as possible in one week: For the first search, 9,374 

were found; for the last, the number had grown to 228,537. The counts are 

not comparable because as word spread, more people became involved 

in searching for sites. For each of the four events, approximately two-thirds 

of the sites found did not support encrypted communication. Also approxi-

mately 30 percent of access points in each event used the default SSID 

(identifier by which the access point is accessed). Typically (in 2002–2004), 

the default SSID was something like “wireless.” A wireless base station with 
