744 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicsmechanisms were designed before the invention of the computer, so their applicability 
to computing needs is somewhat limited. However, program protection is especially 

desired, and software companies are pressing the courts to extend the interpretation of 

these means of protection to include computers.We also explored the relationship between employers and employees, in the con-
text of writers of software. Well-established laws and precedents control the acceptable 

access an employee has to software written for a company.
Third, we examined the legal side of software vulnerabilities: Who is liable for errors 
in software, and how is that liability enforced? Additionally, we considered alternative 

ways to report software errors.
Fourth, we noted some of the difficulties in investigating and prosecuting computer 
crime. Several examples showed how breaches of computer security are treated by the 

courts. The legal system is moving cautiously but resolutely in its acceptance of com-

puters. We described several important pieces of computer crime legislation that repre-

sent slow progress forward.
11.6 ETHICAL ISSUES IN COMPUTER SECURITY
This final section helps clarify thinking about the ethical issues involved in computer 

security. We offer no answers. Rather, after listing and explaining some ethical prin-

ciples, we present several problem studies to which the principles can be applied. Each 

story is followed by a list of possible ethical issues involved, although the list is not 

necessarily all-inclusive or conclusive. The primary purpose of this section is to explore 

some of the ethical issues associated with computer security and to show how ethics 

functions as a control.Differences Between the Law and Ethics
As we noted earlier, law is not always the appropriate way to deal with issues of human 

behavior. It is difficult to define a law to preclude only the events we want it to. For 

example, a law that restricts animals from public places must be refined to 
permit guide 
dogs for the blind. Lawmakers, who are not computer professionals, are hard pressed 

to think of all the exceptions when they draft a law concerning computer affairs. Even 

when a law is well conceived and well written, its enforcement may be difficult. The 

courts are overburdened, and prosecuting relatively minor infractions may be exces-

sively time consuming relative to the benefit.
Thus, it is impossible or impractical to develop laws to describe and enforce all 
forms of behavior acceptable to society. Instead, society relies on 
ethics or 
morals to 
prescribe generally accepted standards of proper behavior. (In this section the terms eth-

ics and morals are used interchangeably.) An 
ethic is an objectively defined standard of 
right and wrong. Ethical standards are often idealistic principles because they focus on 

one objective. In a given situation, however, several moral objectives may be involved, 

so people have to determine an action that is appropriate considering all the objectives. 
