 Section 8.4  Cloud Identity Management 
569  them all, along with which users have or need accounts with which providers, can be 
a logistical nightmare. One strong advantage of cloud computing is that responsibility 

for managing a computing operation is transferred to the cloud provider. However, with 

that transfer comes a temptation to ignore or forget the need for identity management 

that only the organization can provide.
If having users create an individual account is a poor option, then having a shared 
account for a whole organization is a worse one. Having multiple users sharing a single 

password greatly increases the odds of that password being stolen. Worse, in the case 

of user misbehavior, discerning who did what with which data is impossible. Worst of 

all, the password must be changed every time a user leaves the organization or changes 

roles, since that is the only way to prevent a formerly authorized user from continuing 

to access the account.The solution to these problems is a concept called federated identity manage-ment (FIdM, which we introduce in Chapter 2). FIdM “enables identity information to 
be developed and shared among several entities and across trust domains…providing 

‘single sign-on’ convenience and efficiencies to identified individuals, identity provid-
ers and relying parties.” [GAR14] In short, FIdM allows one organization or system to 

attest to another a user’s identity and authority.
With FIdM, one system maintains a user’s identity information, and other systems 
query that one system when needed. Imagine, for example, that you work for a com-

pany that outsources its email system to a cloud provider. To access your email, you go 

to the cloud provider’s website and enter your company login credentials—likely the 

same credentials you use to log in to your computer at work. Instead of checking your 

credentials itself, the website refers to an identity management server at your company 

to authenticate you. Because your company’s identity management server knows your 

identity, it can confirm your credentials and send the cloud provider a message authoriz-

ing you to access your email. Figure 8-4 diagrams this information flow, with steps 3 

and 4 depicting the alternative (and preferred, from a security perspective) possibility of 

bypassing the third-party provider when transmitting login credentials.
FIdM deals effectively with all the cloud identity challenges we have outlined 
above. With FIdM solutions, users can access all of a company’s cloud service pro-

viders with the same credentials they use to access company systems. Because cloud 

customers control the authentication process, they can specify authentication require-

ments that make sense for them: minimum password length, multifactor authentication, 

or biometrics, for instance. FIdM also greatly simplifies the governance issue, ensur-

ing, as it does, that only one system has the authority to create, modify, or delete user 

accounts: the customer’s identity management system (commonly LDAP or Microsoft 

Active Directory).
Although we are presenting FIdM in the context of using cloud services, none of 
the federation techniques we are presenting here are restricted to cloud scenarios. They 

can be equally valuable for managing identities across network enclaves or security 

contexts within a single enterprise or among groups of enterprises. If user identities are 

provisioned, maintained, and authenticated in one environment, but services that require 

those identities run in a separate environment, then FIdM is probably a good idea.
