272 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
of another, to a destination in a third with perhaps a malicious link hosted on a computer 
in a fourth—sorting out who can act is complicated and time consuming, especially if 
not all the countries involved want to cooperate fully.
Defining the scope of prohibited activity is tricky, because countries want to support 
Internet commerce, especially in their own borders. Almost immediately after it was 

signed, detractors dubbed the U.S. CAN-SPAM act the “You Can Spam” act because 

it does not require emailers to obtain permission from the intended recipient before 

sending email messages. The act requires emailers to provide an opt-out procedure, but 

marginally legal or illegal senders will not care about violating that provision
Redress for an offshore agent requires international cooperation, which is both time 
consuming and political. Extraditing suspects and seizing assets are not routine activi-

ties, so they tend to be reserved for major, highly visible crimes.
Thus, although passing laws against spam is easy, writing effective laws and imple-
menting them is far more difficult. As we describe in Chapter 11, laws are an important 

and necessary part of maintaining a peaceful and fair civil society. Good laws inform 

citizens of honest and proper actions. But laws are not always effective deterrents 

against determined and dedicated actors.Source Addresses The Internet runs on a sort of honor system in which everyone is expected to play by the 

rules. As we noted earlier, source addresses in email can easily be forged. Legitimate 

senders want valid source addresses as a way to support replies; illegitimate senders get 

their responses from web links, so the return address is of no benefit. Accurate return 

addresses only provide a way to track the sender, which illegitimate senders do not want.
Still, the Internet protocols could enforce stronger return addresses. Each recipient 
in the chain of email forwarding could enforce that the address of the sender match 

the system from which this email is being transmitted. Such a change would require 

a rewriting of the email protocols and a major overhaul of all email carriers on the 

Internet, which is unlikely unless 

there is another compelling reason, 
not security.
Screeners Among the first countermeasures developed against spam were screeners, tools to auto-

matically identify and quarantine or delete spam. As with similar techniques such as 

virus detection, spammers follow closely what gets caught by screeners and what slips 

through, and revise the form and content of spam email accordingly.
Screeners are highly effective against amateur spam senders, but sophisticated mail-
ers can pass through screeners.Volume Limitations 
One proposed option is to limit the volume of a single sender or a single email system. 

Most of us send individual email messages to one or a few parties; occasionally we may 

send to a mass mailing list. Limiting our sending volume would not be a serious hard-

ship. The volume could be per hour, day, or any other convenient unit. Set high enough 

the limits would never affect individuals.
Email sender addresses are not reliable.
