 Section 2.1  Authentication 
57  TABLE 2-7 
Reference Standard with Variables
Is the Person ClaimedIs Not the Person Claimed
Test is Positive
True Positive 
 aFalse Positive 
 bTest is Negative
False Negative 
 cTrue Negative 
 dnumber of false positives and false negatives. To assist us, we calculate the 
positive predictive value 
of a test: a number that expresses how many times 
a positive match actually represents the identification of the sought person. 

The positive predictive value is 
a / (
a  b). Similarly, we can calculate the 
negative predictive value 
of the test as d / (
c  d). We can use the predic-
tive values to give us an idea of when a result is likely to be positive or 

negative. For example, a positive result of a condition that has high preva-

lence is likely to be positive. However, a positive result for an uncommon 

condition is likely to be a false positive.The sensitivity and specificity change for a given test, depending on the level of the test that defines a match. For example, the test could call it 
a match only if it is an exact match: only ‘Smith’ would match ‘Smith.’ Such 
a match criterion would have fewer positive results (that is, fewer situa-

tions considered to match) than one that uses Soundex to declare that two 

names are the same: ‘Smith’ is the same as ‘Smythe,’ ‘Smeth,’ ‘Smitt,’ and 

other similarly sounding names. Consequently, the two tests vary in their 

sensitivity. The Soundex criterion is less strict and is likely to produce more 

positive matches; therefore, it is the more sensitive but less specific test. 

In general, consider the range of sensitivities that can result as we change 

the test criteria. We can improve the sensitivity by making the criterion for a 

positive test less strict. Similarly, we can improve the specificity by making 

the criterion for a positive test stricter.
A receiver operating characteristic
 (ROC) 
curve is a graphical rep-
resentation of the trade-off between the false negative and false positive 

rates. Traditionally, the graph of the ROC shows the false positive rate  

(1  specificity) on the x-axis and the true positive rate (sensitivity or 
1  the false negative rate) on the y-axis. The accuracy of the test cor-
responds to the area under the curve. An area of 1 represents the perfect 

test, whereas an area of 0.5 is a worthless test. Ideally, we want a test to 

be as far left and as high on the graph as possible, representing a test with 

a high rate of true positives and a low rate of false positives. That is, the 

larger the area under the curve, the more the test is identifying true posi-

tives and minimizing false positives. Figure 2-4 shows examples of ROC 

curves and their relationship to sensitivity and specificity.
(continues)