 Section 6.9  Network Management 
489  6.9 NETWORK MANAGEMENT
Next, we introduce some security-relevant concepts of managing, administering, and 
tuning networks. The administrator can take actions to prefer one stream of network 

traffic over another, either to promote fair use of resources or to block a malicious traffic 

stream so that nonmalicious communication does go through. To do this kind of tuning 

the administrator needs an accurate image of the network’s status. Tools called security 

information and event management devices collect status indications from a range of 

products—including firewalls, IDSs, routers, load balancers—and put these separate 

data streams together into a unified view.
Management to Ensure Service
Networks are not set-and-forget kinds of systems; because network activity is dynamic, 

administrators need to monitor network performance and adjust characteristics as 

necessary. 
In this section we list some of the kinds of management that networks require. 
Recognize, however, that most of this information is useful for network administra-

tors whose main responsibility is keeping the network running smoothly, not defending 

against denial-of-service attacks. These measures counter ordinary cases of suboptimal 

performance, but not concerted attacks. In this section we merely mention these topics; 

for details you should consult a comprehensive network administration reference.
Capacity PlanningOne benign cause of denial of service is insufficient capacity: too much data for too little 
capability. Not usually viewed as a security issue, capacity planning involves monitor-

ing network traffic load and performance to determine when to upgrade which aspects.
A network or component running at or near capacity has little margin for error, 
meaning that a slight but normal surge in traffic can put the network over the top and 

cause significant degradation in service.
Websites are especially vulnerable to unexpected capacity problems. A news site 
may run fine during normal times until a significant event occurs, such as the death of 

a famous person or an earthquake, plane crash, or terrorist attack, after which many 

people want the latest details on the event. Launching a new product with advertising 

can also cause an overload; events such as opening sales of tickets for a popular concert 

or sporting event have swamped websites.
Network administrators need to be aware of these situations that can cause unex-
pected demand.Load balancingPopular websites such as those of Google, Microsoft, and the New York Times
 are not run 
on one computer alone; no single computer has the capacity to support all the traffic these 

sites receive at once. Instead, these places rely on many computers to handle the volume.
