 Section 6.1  Network Concepts 
349  commercial network users employ encryption to protect the confidentiality of their 
communications, as we demonstrate later in this chapter. Local network communica-

tions can be encrypted, although for performance reasons it may instead be preferable 
to protect local connections with strong physical and administrative security.
Intruding into or intercepting from a communications medium is just one way to 
strike a network. Integrity and availability threats apply as well. Addressing and routing 

are also fruitful points of vulnerability. In the next section we present basic network 

addressing concepts that have security implications.
Background: Protocol Layers
Network communications are performed through a virtual concept called the Open Sys-

tem Interconnection (or OSI) model. This seven-layer model starts with an application 

that prepares data to be transmitted 
through a network. The data move 

down through the layers, being 

transformed and repackaged; at the 
lower layers, control information is 
SIDEBAR 6-2  
Mirror, Mirror, on My Screen
Researcher Michael Backes has discovered that many surfaces can reflect 
images. We are, of course, aware of mirrors and shiny metal objects. But 

researcher Backes has experimented with eyeglasses (which he found work 

quite well), ceramic coffee cups, jewelry, and even individuals’ eyeballs.
A professor at the Max Planck Institute for Software Systems, Backes 
got his idea as he passed a room in which his graduate students were 

intently typing on computers. Wondering what they were up to, he noticed 

the blue image of the screen reflected on a teapot on one student’s desk. 

The next day he appeared with a telescope and camera and began his 

study, as reported in 
Scientific American [GIB09]. Using a powerful ama-
teur-grade telescope, he trained his sight on reflecting objects from a dis-

tance of 10 meters (30 feet) and read the contents of a computer screen, 

even when the screen faced away from the telescope.
He has applied techniques from mathematics and astronomy to clarify 
the images, allowing him to read 36-point type (roughly three times as large 

as the type in this paragraph) from 10 meters away, but he thinks with more 

sophisticated equipment he could significantly improve on that result. Other 

photo enhancement software should also clarify the image, he thinks. He 

warns that if these attacks are feasible for an amateur like him, dedicated 

attackers can probably do better.
Maybe the expression “I can see what you are thinking” is truer than 
we think.The OSI model, most useful conceptually, describes similar processes 

of both the sender and receiver.
