676 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsTABLE 10-4 
Attributes Contributing to Vulnerabilities 
Design/ArchitectureBehavioralGeneral
• Singularity– Uniqueness
– Centrality
– Homogeneity• Separability
• Logic/implementation errors; 
fallibility
• Design sensitivity, fragility, 
limits, finiteness
• Unrecoverability
• Behavioral sensitivity/fragility
• Malevolence

• Rigidity
• Malleability
• Gullibility, deceivability, 
naïveté
• Complacency

• Corruptibility, controllability
• Accessible, detectable, 
identifiable, transparent, 

interceptable• Hard to manage or control

• Self-unawareness and 
unpredictability• PredictabilityFrom [ANT02], copyright © RAND 2002, reprinted by permission.
SIDEBAR 10-7 Three Approaches to Probability
Normally, we think of probability or likelihood as one concept. But in fact, 
we can think about and derive probabilities in many ways. The approach 

to probability that you use suggests how much confidence you can have in 

the probability numbers you derive.
Classical probability
 is the simplest and most theoretical kind. It is 
based on a model of how the world works. For example, to calculate the 

probability that a given side of a six-sided die will result from tossing the 

die, we think of a model of a cube, where each side is equally sized and 

weighted. This kind of probability requires no empirical data. The answers 

can be derived from the model itself, and in an objective way. However, 

classical probability requires knowledge of elementary events and is bound 

to the model’s correctness. Classical probability is not well suited for han-

dling problems involving infinite sets.
When we cannot use classical probability, we often choose to use 
fre-
quency probability
. Here, instead of building a model of a die, we take a real 
die and toss it many times, recording the result each time. This approach to 

probability requires historical data and assumes environmental stability and 

replication. In our example, we assume that the die is weighted properly 

and the tossing motion is the same each time. Frequency probabilities are 

never exact. What we hope is that, in their limit, they approach the theoreti-

cal probability of an event. Thus, if 100 people each toss a die 100 times, 

each person’s distribution may be slightly different from the others, but in 

the aggregate the distribution will approach the correct one. Clearly, fre-

quency probability cannot be applied to unique events; for example, we 

cannot use it to estimate the probability that software will fail in a particular 

way on a particular day.
When we cannot use classical or frequency probability, we often rely 
on subjective probability
, which requires neither data nor formal analysis. 
Here, we ask experts to give us their opinions on the likelihood of an event, 
