446 Chapter 6  
NetworksKey ManagementAs with most cryptographic applications, the critical element is key management. IPsec 
addresses this need with the Internet Security Association Key Management Proto-
col, or ISAKMP. Like SSL, ISAKMP requires that a distinct key be generated for each 
security association. The ISAKMP protocol is simple, flexible, and scalable. In IPsec, 

ISAKMP is implemented through the ISAKMP key exchange
, or IKE, which pro-vides a way to agree on and manage protocols, algorithms, and keys. For key exchange 

between unrelated parties, IKE uses the Diffie–Hellman scheme (described in Chap-

ter 12) to generate a mutually shared secret that will then be used as an encryption key. 

With their shared secret, the two parties exchange identities and certificates to authenti-

cate those identities. Finally, they derive a shared cryptographic key and enter a security 

association.The key exchange is very efficient: The exchange can be accomplished in two mes-
sages, with an optional two more messages for authentication. Because this is a public 

key method, only two keys are needed for each pair of communicating parties. IKE has 

submodes for authentication (initiation) and for establishing new keys in an existing 

security association.Modes of OperationIPsec can enforce either or both of confidentiality and authenticity. Confidentiality is 
achieved with symmetric encryption, and authenticity is obtained with an asymmetric 

algorithm for signing with a private key. Additionally, a hash function guards against 

modification.
For some situations, not only are the data of a transmission sensitive, but so also is 
the identity (address) of its final recipient. Of course, packets require addresses to be 

routed through the network. However, the exposed address can be that of a front-end 

device, such as a firewall, that then forwards the transmission to an unexposed internal 

network address. IPsec defines two modes of operation, as depicted in Figure 6-47. 

In transport mode (normal operation), the IP address header is unencrypted. In 
tun-nel mode, the recipient’s address is concealed by encryption, and IPsec substitutes the 
address of a remote device, such as a firewall, that will receive the transmission and 

remove the IPsec encryption.
IPsec can establish cryptographic sessions with many purposes, including VPNs, 
applications, and lower-level network management (such as routing). The protocols of 
CryptoNumSeqNumPayload Data
AuthDataauthenticatedencryptedESPAHFIGURE 6-46 Protection of the ESP in IPsec