 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
679  there is a cost to others of not having a piece of hardware or software. Similarly, there 
are costs in restoring a system to its previous state, reinstalling software, or deriving a 

piece of information. These costs are substantially harder to measure.
In addition, there may be hidden costs that involve legal fees if certain events take 
place. For example, some data require protection for legal reasons. Personal data, such 

as police records, tax information, census data, and medical information, are so sensitive 

that there are criminal penalties for releasing the data to unauthorized people. Other data 
are company confidential; their release may give competitors an edge on new products or 

on likely changes to the stock price. Some financial data, especially when they reflect an 

adverse event, could seriously affect public confidence in a bank, an insurance company, 

or a stock brokerage. We are hard pressed to determine the cost of releasing these data.
If a computing system, a piece of software, or a key person is unavailable, causing 
a particular computing task to be delayed, there may be serious consequences. If a 

program that prints paychecks is delayed, employees’ confidence in the company may 

be shaken, or some employees may 

face penalties from not being able 

to pay their own bills. If customers 

cannot make transactions because 

the computer is down, they may 
TABLE 10-6 
Comparing Quantitative to Qualitative Risk Assessment
ProsCons
Quantitative
• Assessment and results based on 
independently objective processes and 

metrics. Meaningful statistical analysis 
is supported• Value of information assets and 
expected loss expressed in monetary 

terms. Supporting rationale easily 
understood• Provides credible basis for cost/benefit 
assessment of risk mitigation. Supports 
information security budget decision-

making• Calculations are complex. Management 
may mistrust the results of calculations 
and hence analysis• Must gather substantial information 
about the target IT environment 
• No standard independently developed 
and maintained threat population and 
frequency knowledge base. Users must 

rely on the credibility of the in-house 
or external threat likelihood assessment
Qualitative
• Simple calculations, readily understood 
and executed
• Not necessary to quantify threat 
frequency and impact data
• Not necessary to estimate cost of 
recommended risk mitigation measures 
and calculate cost/benefit
• A general indication of significant 
areas of risk that should be addressed is 
provided
• Results are subjective. Use of 
independently objective metrics is 

eschewed
• No effort to develop an objective 
monetary basis for the value of targeted 

information assets• Provides no measurable basis for cost/
benefit analysis of risk mitigation. 

Difficult to compare risk to control cost
• Not possible to track risk management 
performance objectively when all 

measures are subjective
Estimates of expected loss are 
necessarily imprecise; relative sizes are 

more important than absolute values.
