642 Chapter 9  
PrivacyVoIP and Skype
Privacy aspects of traditional telephony were fairly well understood: Telephone com-
panies were regulated monopolies that needed to preserve the confidentiality of their 

clients’ communications. Exceptions occurred under statutorily defined circumstances 

for law enforcement purposes and in emergencies. Furthermore, the technology was 

relatively resistant to eavesdropping, with the greatest exposure at the end points.
Cellular telephony and Internet-based phone service have significantly changed that 
situation. Voice over IP
 (VoIP
) is a protocol for transmission of voice traffic over the 
Internet. Major VoIP carriers include Skype, Google Talk, and Vonage. The service con-

verts your analog voice to digital signals sent over the Internet; you use a telephone 

handset or microphone and speaker connected to your computer. To call from London 

to Rio, for example, you would invoke the VoIP application, giving it the telephone 

number in Rio. A local office in Rio would call the number in Rio and patch that call to 

its Internet servers. (The process is even easier if both end points use VoIP.)
The advantage of VoIP is cost: For people who already have a fixed-price broadband 
Internet connection, adding VoIP need only cover the costs of the local connection on 

the remote end and a fee for software. But as we have seen in other Internet applica-

tions, privacy can be sacrificed. Even if the voice traffic is solidly encrypted, the source 

and destination of the phone call will be somewhat exposed through packet headers.
Privacy in the CloudCloud computing is becoming the basis for many business models, from linking com-

puter products to providing backup storage. In Chapter 8 we examine the cloud’s secu-

rity concerns; here, we turn to its privacy issues.
In 2009, Robert Gellman produced a report [GEL09] for the World Privacy Forum 
that examined the privacy implications of using the cloud. He discusses the various 

ways that, for some information and for some business and government users, sharing 

information in the cloud can be at worst illegal, more likely limited, or can even affect 

the status of or protections for the information being shared. Roland Trope and Claudia 

Ray [TRO10] provide extensive examples of these problems for lawyers and judges. 

They describe how the terms of use for many cloud providers can destroy the protec-

tions of lawyer–client confidentiality normally found in the American legal system. For 

example, by putting some legal documents in the cloud, a lawyer can lose control of 

their content; in fact, some cloud providers consider themselves the owners of the con-

tent once it arrives in the cloud.
Gellman describes how, even when no laws keep a user from disclosing information 
to a cloud provider, the disclosure can still have consequences. For instance, the stored 

information may have weaker privacy protections than the original information in its 

creator’s hands. In fact, “both government agencies and private litigants may be able to 

obtain information from a third party more easily than from the creator of the informa-
tion.” Moreover, because privacy laws differ from country to country, the location of the 

cloud servers can affect a cloud user’s data privacy and confidentiality.
