 Section 11.1  Protecting Programs and Data 
713  infractions where the infringement is great enough to ensure success in court or to justify the cost of the court case. However, failing to sue a patent infringement—even a small 

one or one the patent holder does not know about—can mean losing the patent rights 

entirely. But, unlike copyright infringement, a patent holder does not have to prove that 

the infringer copied the invention; a 

patent infringement occurs even if 

someone independently invents the 

same thing, without knowledge of 

the patented invention.
Every infringement must be addressed. A patent owner can start with a letter telling 
the infringer to stop using (selling) the patented object. If the accused does not stop, 
the plaintiff must sue. Prosecution is expensive and time consuming, but even worse, 

suing for patent infringement could cause the patent holder to lose the patent. Someone 
charged with infringement can argue all of the following points as a defense against the 

charge of infringement.
• This isn’t infringement. 
The alleged infringer will claim that the two inventions 
are sufficiently different that no infringement occurred.
• The patent is invalid. 
If a prior infringement was not opposed, the patent rights 
may no longer be valid.
• The invention is not novel. 
In this case, the supposed infringer will try to per-
suade the judge that the Patent Office acted incorrectly in granting a patent and 

that the invention is nothing worthy of patent.
• The infringer invented the object first. 
If so, the accused infringer, and not the 
original patent holder, is entitled to the patent.
The first defense does not damage a patent, although it can limit the novelty of the 
invention. However, the other three defenses can destroy patent rights. Worse, all four 

defenses can be used every time a patent holder sues someone for infringement. Finally, 

obtaining and defending a patent can incur substantial legal fees. Patent protection is 

most appropriate for large companies with substantial research and development staffs, 

and even more substantial legal staffs.
Applicability of Patents to Computer ObjectsThe Patent Office has not encouraged patents of computer software. For a long time, 
computer programs were seen as the representation of an algorithm, and an algorithm 
was a fact of nature, which is not subject to patent. An early software patent case, 
 Gottschalk v. Benson
, involved a request to patent a process for converting decimal 
numbers into binary. The Supreme 

Court rejected the claim, saying 

it seemed to attempt to patent an 

abstract idea, in short, an algorithm. 
But the underlying algorithm is pre-
cisely what most software develop-

ers would like to protect.
Patent holders must act against all 
infringers.Software can be patented, and the 

courts increasingly recognize the 

patentability of a novel technique,  
that is, an algorithm.