 Section 5.2  Security in the Design of Operating Systems 
309  other pieces date back literally decades, with long-forgotten design characteristics. And 
some pieces were written just yesterday. Old and new pieces must interact and interface 

successfully, and new designers must ensure that their code works correctly with all 

existing previous versions, not to mention the numerous applications that exist.
Exploit authors capitalize on this complexity by experimenting to locate interface 
mismatches: a function no longer called, an empty position in the table of interrupts 

handled, a forgotten device driver. The operating system opens many points to which 

code can later attach as pieces are loaded during the boot process; if one of these pieces 
is not present, the malicious code can attach instead.Obviously, not all complex software is vulnerable to attack. The point we are mak-
ing is that the more complex the software, the more possibilities for unwanted soft-

ware introduction. A house with no windows leaves no chance for someone to break in 

through a window, but each additional window in a house design increases the potential 

for this harm and requires the homeowner to apply more security. Now extend this 

metaphor to modern operating systems that typically include millions of lines of code: 
What is the likelihood that every line is perfect for its use and fits perfectly with every 

other line?The principles of secure program design we introduced in Chapter 3 apply equally well to operating systems. Simple, modular, loosely coupled designs present fewer 

opportunities to the attacker.
Simplicity of DesignOperating systems by themselves (regardless of their security constraints) are difficult 

to design. They handle many duties, are subject to interruptions and context switches, 

and must minimize overhead so as not to slow user computations and interactions. Add-

ing the responsibility for security enforcement to the operating system increases the 

difficulty of design.
Nevertheless, the need for effective security is pervasive, and good software engi-
neering principles tell us how important it is to design in security at the beginning than 

to shoehorn it in at the end. (See Sidebar 5-2 for more about good design principles.) 

Thus, this section focuses on the design of operating systems for a high degree of 

security. We look in particular at the design of an operating system’s kernel; how the 

kernel is designed suggests whether security will be provided effectively. We study two 

different interpretations of the kernel, and then we consider layered or ring-structured 

designs.Layered Design
As described previously, a nontrivial operating system consists of at least four levels: 

hardware, kernel, operating system, and user. Each of these layers can include sublay-

ers. For example, in [SCH83], the kernel has five distinct layers. The user level may 

also have quasi-system programs, such as database managers or graphical user interface 

shells, that constitute separate layers of security themselves.
