 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
673  To organize the way we consider threats and assets, we can use a matrix such as the 
one shown in Table 10-2. One vulnerability can affect more than one asset or cause 

more than one type of loss. The table is a guide to stimulate thinking, but its format is 

not rigid.Different techniques support the identification and management of 
potential hazards in complex critical systems. Among the most effective are 

hazard and operability studies
 (HAZOP), 
failure modes and effects analy-
sis (FMEA), and 
fault tree analysis
 (FTA). HAZOP is a structured analysis 
technique originally developed for the process control and chemical plant 

industries. FMEA is a bottom-up technique applied at the system com-

ponent level. A team identifies each component’s possible faults or fault 

modes; then, it determines what could trigger the fault and what system-

wide effects each fault might have. By keeping system consequences in 

mind, the team often finds possible system failures that are not made visible 

by other analytical means. FTA complements FMEA. It is a top-down tech-

nique that begins with a postulated hazardous system malfunction. Then, 

the FTA team works backwards to identify the possible precursors to the 

mishap. By tracing from a specific hazardous malfunction, the team can 

derive unexpected contributors to mishaps and identify opportunities to 

mitigate the risk of mishaps. We decide which technique is most appropriate by understanding 
how much we know about causes and effects. When we know the cause 

and effect of a given problem, we can strengthen the description of how 

the system should behave. If we can describe a known effect with unknown 

cause, then we use deductive techniques such as FTA to help us under-

stand the likely causes of the unwelcome behavior. Conversely, we may 

know the cause of a problem but not understand all the effects; here, we 

use inductive techniques such as FMEA to help us trace from cause to all 

possible effects. Finally, to find problems about which we may not yet be 

aware, we perform an exploratory analysis such as a HAZOP study.
TABLE 10-2 
Assets and Security PropertiesAssetConfidentialityIntegrityAvailability
Hardware
Software

Data
People
Documentation
Supplies