686 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidents10.5 DEALING WITH DISASTER
Much of this book has focused on technical issues in security and their technical solu-
tions: firewalls, encryption techniques, malware scanners, and more. But many threats to 

security involve human or natural disasters, events that should also be addressed in the 

security plan. For this reason, in this section we consider how to cope with the nontech-

nical things that can go wrong. Dealing with nontechnical problems has two aspects: 

preventing things that can be prevented and recovering from the things that cannot be 

prevented. Physical security is the term used to describe protection needed outside the 

computer system. Typical physical security controls include guards, locks, and fences 

to deter direct attacks. In addition, there are other kinds of protection against less direct 
disasters, such as floods and power outages; these, too, are part of physical security. As 

this section shows, many physical security measures can be established simply by good 

common sense, a characteristic that Mark Twain noted “is a most uncommon virtue.” 
Natural DisastersComputers are subject to the same natural disasters that can occur to homes, stores, and 
automobiles. They can be flooded, burned, melted, hit by falling objects, and destroyed 

by earthquakes, storms, and tornadoes. Additionally, computers are sensitive to their 

operating environment, so excessive heat or inadequate power is also a threat. No one 

can prevent natural disasters, but through careful planning, organizations can reduce 

the damage they inflict. Some measures can be taken to reduce their impact. Because 

many of these perils cannot be prevented or predicted, controls focus on limiting pos-

sible damage and recovering quickly from a disaster. Issues to be considered include the 

need for offsite backups, the cost of 

replacing equipment, the speed with 
which equipment can be replaced, 

the need for available computing 

power, and the cost or difficulty of 

replacing data and programs.FloodWater from a natural flood comes from ground level, rising gradually, and bringing with 
it mud and debris. Often, the staff has time for an orderly shutdown of the computing 

system; at worst, the organization loses some of the processing in progress. At other 

times, such as when a dam breaks, a water pipe bursts, a sprinkler system malfunctions, 

or the roof collapses in a storm, a sudden flood can overwhelm the system and its users 

before anything can be saved. Water can come from above, below, or the side. The 

machinery may be destroyed or damaged by mud and water, but most computing sys-

tems are insured and replaceable by the manufacturer. Managers of unique or irreplace-

able equipment who recognize the added risk sometimes purchase or lease duplicate 

redundant hardware systems to ensure against disruption of service.
Natural disasters can neither be 
predicted nor prevented; that does not 

excuse failing to prepare for them.
