846 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
Critical IssuesMany countries, including the United States, Britain, and France, are creating “cyber com-
mands”: new military entities focused on defending from and waging cyber war. Some 

experts, such as McGraw and Arce, argue that the cyber domain is not like other military 

domains, because a country cannot overtake or “own” cyberspace in the same way that 

an army dominates land, sea, or air. But, as we have seen, many critical issues must be 

addressed if cyber war is to be a reasonable approach to solving international problems.
We now pose some large questions concerning these issues for you to analyze and 
debate. There is no single right answer to these questions, nor is there even majority 

agreement on these answers. We invite you to think through these questions, develop your 

own answers, and perhaps debate them with friends, family, colleagues, or classmates.
When Is It Warfare?
What constitutes an act of war? According to some historians of war, the action must be 
taken by uniformed members of the attacking country’s military, and the result must be 

acknowledged as a military action by the attacked country. By this standard, the attack 

on Estonia was not an act of war. It may have been instigated by organized criminals 

or a group of angry citizens, and it was not acknowledged as a military action by any 

national government. What about the other examples in the previous section: which are 

likely to be true acts of warfare by this standard? And is this standard reasonable for 

acts in cyberspace?
How Likely Is It?Sommer and Brown [SOM11] claim that there will never be a true cyber war. They 
offer several reasons, including the difficulties of predicting the true effects of a cyber 
SIDEBAR 13-5 Continuedused in the Syrian radar system. “By sending a preprogrammed code to 
those chips, an unknown antagonist had disrupted the chips’ function and 
temporarily blocked the radar.” [ADE08] 
The appeal of such a kill switch is clear: If something goes wrong, 
the system or some part of it can be disabled remotely. There are several 

ways to build such a switch, including addition of extra logic to a chip or 
extra software capabilities to a large, complex system. The latter may be 

especially difficult to find:
“Say those 1000 transistors are programmed to respond to a specific 
512-bit sequence of numbers. To discover the code using software test-

ing, you might have to cycle through every possible numerical combination 

of 512-bit sequences. . . . Tim Holman, a research associate professor of 

electrical engineering at Vanderbilt University, in Nashville, [says] ‘There 

just isn’t enough time in the universe.’” [ADE08] But, as we described in 

Chapter 3, depending on secrecy is a risky countermeasure, especially for 

a technology as powerful as this.
