 Section 6.7  Firewalls 
453  with a firewall is determining which 
security policy meets the needs of 

the installation.People in the firewall community 
(users, developers, and security experts) disagree about how a firewall should work. 

In particular, the community is divided about a firewall’s default behavior. We can 

describe the two schools of thought as “that which is not expressly forbidden is permit-

ted” (default permit) and “that which is not expressly permitted is forbidden” (
default deny). Users, always interested in new features, prefer the former. Security experts, 
relying on several decades of experience, strongly counsel the latter. An administrator 

implementing or configuring a firewall must choose one of the two approaches, although 

the administrator can often broaden the policy by setting the firewall’s parameters.
Design of Firewalls
As we have described them, firewalls are simple devices that rigorously and effectively 

control the flow of data to and from a network. Two qualities lead to that effectiveness: 

a well-understood traffic flow policy and a trustworthy design and implementation.
PolicyA firewall implements a 
security policy, that is, a set of rules that determine what traf-fic can or cannot pass through the firewall. As with many problems in computer secu-

rity, we would ideally like a simple policy, such as “good” traffic can pass but “bad” 

traffic is blocked. Unfortunately, defining “good” and “bad” is neither simple nor algo-

rithmic. Firewalls come with example policies, but each network administrator needs to 

determine what traffic to allow into a particular network.
An example of a simple firewall configuration is shown in Table 6-5. The table is pro-
cessed from the top down, and the first matching rule determines the firewall’s action. 

The * character matches any value in that field. This policy says any inbound traffic to 
Firewalls enforce predetermined rules 

governing what traffic can flow.
TABLE 6-5 
Example Firewall Conﬁguration
RuleType
Source 
Address
Destination Address
Destination PortAction
1TCP*192.168.1.*25Permit
2UDP*192.168.1.*69Permit

3TCP192.168.1.**80Permit
4TCP*192.168.1.1880Permit

5TCP*192.168.1.**Deny

6UDP*192.168.1.**Deny
