xxvTablets, smartphones, TV set-top boxes, GPS navigation devices, exercise moni-
tors, home security stations, even washers and dryers come with Internet connec-

tions by which data from and about you go to places over which you have little 
visibility or control. At the same time, the list of retailers suffering massive losses of 

customer data continues to grow: Home Depot, Target, T.J. Maxx, P.F. Chang’s, Sally 

Beauty. On the one hand people want the convenience and benefits that added con-

nectivity brings, while on the other hand, people are worried, and some are seriously 

harmed by the impact of such incidents. Computer security brings these two threads 

together as technology races forward with smart products whose designers omit the 

basic controls that can prevent or limit catastrophes.
To some extent, people sigh and expect security failures in basic products and com-
plex systems. But these failures do not have to be. Every computer professional can 

learn how such problems occur and how to counter them. Computer security has been 

around as a field since the 1960s, and it has developed excellent research, leading to a 

good understanding of the threat and how to manage it.
One factor that turns off many people is the language: Complicated terms such as 
polymorphic virus, advanced persistent threat, distributed denial-of-service attack, 

inference and aggregation, multifactor authentication, key exchange protocol, and intru-

sion detection system do not exactly roll off the tongue. Other terms sound intriguing 

but opaque, such as worm, botnet, rootkit, man in the browser, honeynet, sandbox, and 

script kiddie. The language of advanced mathematics or microbiology is no less con-

founding, and the Latin terminology of medicine and law separates those who know it 

from those who do not. But the terms and concepts of computer security really have 

straightforward, easy-to-learn meaning and uses.
The premise of computer 
security is quite simple: Vul-

nerabilities are weaknesses in 

products, systems, protocols, 

algorithms, programs, inter-

faces, and designs. A threat is 
Preface
Vulnerability: weakness 

Threat: condition that exercises vulnerability 

Incident: vulnerability + threat 

Control: reduction of threat or vulnerablity
