784 Chapter 12  
Details of CryptographyDecryption of DESThe same DES algorithm is used both for encryption and decryption. This result is true 
because cycle 
j derives from cycle (
j−1) in the following manner:
 Lj  Rj–1 (1) Rj  Lj–1 f(Rj–1, kj) (2)where  is the exclusive OR operation and 
f is the function computed in an expand-
shift-substitute-permute cycle. These two equations show that the result of each cycle 

depends only on the previous cycle.
By rewriting these equations in terms of R
j−1 and Lj−1, we get Rj–1  Lj (3)and
 Lj–1  Rj f(Rj–1, kj) (4)Substituting (3) into (4) gives

 Lj–1  Rj f(Lj, kj) (5)Equations (3) and (5) show that these same values could be obtained from the results of 
later cycles. This property makes DES a reversible procedure; we can encrypt a string 
and also decrypt the result to derive the plaintext again.
With DES, the same function 
f is used forward to encrypt or backwards to decrypt
. The only change is that the keys must be taken in reverse order (
k16, k15, ..., k1) for 
decryption. Using one algorithm either to encrypt or to decrypt is convenient for a hard-

ware or software implementation of DES.
ChainingYou may have noticed a weakness in description of the previous section. DES uses the 
same process for each 64-bit block. That means that any identical data blocks encrypted 

with the same key will have the same output. Of course, you might say, the process has 

to be regular and consistent for decryption to be possible, and that is certainly true.
Now think like an attacker. A bank uses DES to encrypt a network stream of data con-
taining instructions to transfer money from one account to another. The bank chooses 

a key to use for some period of time, for example, a day, because changing keys is 

cumbersome. Just to make this argument simple, assume the amount and account num-

ber are both exactly 64 bits long and happen to appear on 64-bit boundaries within the 

transfer message. (A similar argument will work regardless of the lengths and positions 

of the fields.) In Figure 12-4 we depict the general form of these messages. The figure 

also shows four examples, to transfer (1) $100 from Annie to Brian, (2) $500 from Car-

ole to Drew, (3) $0.01 from Evin to our malicious agent Zelda, and (4) the same amount 

from Feng to Zelda. (Note: the encrypted values in these four example figures are ficti-

tious, created just for these explanations; no real cryptography was applied.)
