 Section 2.1  Authentication 
39  Some account IDs are not hard to guess. Some places assign user IDs as the user’s 
last name followed by first initial. Others use three initials or some other scheme that 

outsiders can easily predict. Often for online transactions your account ID is your email 
address, to make it easy for you to remember. Other accounts identify you by telephone, 

social security, or some other identity number. With too many accounts to remember, 

you may welcome places that identify you by something you know well because you 

use it often. But using it often also 

means other people can know or 

guess it as well. For these reasons, 

many people could easily, although 

falsely, claim to be you by present-

ing one of your known identifiers.
Authentication, on the other hand, should be reliable. If identification asserts your 
identity, authentication confirms that you are who you purport to be. Although identi-

fiers may be widely known or easily determined, authentication should be private. How-

ever, if the authentication process is not strong enough, it will not be secure. Consider, 

for example, how one political candidate’s email was compromised by a not-private-

enough authentication process as described in Sidebar 2-1.SIDEBAR 2-1  
Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin’s 
Email ExposedDuring the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign, vice presidential candidate 
Sarah Palin’s personal email account was hacked. Contents of email mes-

sages and Palin’s contacts list were posted on a public bulletin board. A 

20-year-old University of Tennessee student, David Kernell, was subse-

quently convicted of unauthorized access to obtain information from her 

computer and sentenced to a year and a day.
How could a college student have accessed the computer of a high-profile public official who at the time was governor of Alaska and a U.S. vice 

presidential candidate under protection of the U.S. Secret Service? Easy: 

He simply pretended to be her. But surely nobody (other than, perhaps, 

comedian Tina Fey) could successfully impersonate her. Here is how easy 

the attack was.Governor Palin’s email account was gov.palin@yahoo.com. The 
account ID was well known because of news reports of an earlier incident 

involving Palin’s using her personal account for official state communica-

tions; even without the publicity the account name would not have been 

hard to guess. 
But the password? No, the student didn’t guess the password. All 
he had to do was pretend to be Palin and claim she had forgotten her 

password. Yahoo asked Kernell the security questions Palin had filed with 

Yahoo on opening the account: birth date (found from Wikipedia), postcode 
Identities are typically public or well 
known. Authentication should be 
private.(continues)