442 Chapter 6  
NetworksThe chain of certificates and signers is important because of the potential for 
unscru-pulous CAs. If you examine the set of CA certificates loaded in a browser, you will 
likely find familiar and unfamiliar names of organizations from all over the world. Any 

of these CAs can sign a certificate for another lower-level certificate authority, and so 

forth, down to an individual organization engaging in an SSL session. If an attacker 

wanted to establish a fake banking site, for example, getting an unscrupulous CA to 

issue a certificate for SSL would add to the site’s apparent credibility without necessar-

ily providing security.
Finally, in Figure 6-44 you can see that the DigiCert root certificate was issued by 
GTE CyberTrust Solutions. Other fields include period of validity, algorithms used, 

date of issuance, and contact details. Thus, an interested user could compare the full 

chain of certificates and signatures starting from a trusted root.
Although the preloaded certificate authorities are reputable, if one were to sign a cer-
tificate for a less honorable firm, the SSL operation would still succeed. SSL requires a 

certificate chain from a CA in the browser’s list, but all such CAs are equally credible to 

the browser. That is why you should review your set of loaded certificates to ensure that 

you would trust anything signed by any of them.
The SSL protocol is simple but effective, and it is the most widely used secure commu-
nication protocol on the Internet. However, remember that SSL protects only from the cli-

ent’s browser to the server’s decryption point (which is often only to the server’s firewall 

or, slightly stronger, to the computer that runs the web application). Data are exposed from 

the user’s keyboard to the browser and throughout the recipient’s environment. Remem-

ber the vulnerabilities of a keystroke logger and man in the browser that we described in 

Chapter 4. Blue Gem Security has developed a product called LocalSSL that encrypts 
FIGURE 6-44 Root Certificate
