 Section 13.3  Electronic Voting 
835  With careful control of paper ballots, we can largely satisfy these requirements, but 
for large populations the efficiency of such systems is poor. Moreover, it can be very 

expensive to provide paper voting opportunities in remote locations, thanks to travel 

costs and inefficiencies of small scale. For these reasons, many countries and locali-

ties have turned to computerizing voting systems to improve availability and efficiency 

without sacrificing privacy or accuracy. In this section, we consider first the defini-

tion of electronic voting and then 

the critical issues involved in ensur-

ing that such systems are really fair, 

confidential, accurate, and avail-

able. Notice that we also mention 

the privacy aspects of electronic 

voting in Chapter 9.
What Is Electronic Voting?
Electronic voting (sometimes called e-voting) refers to an election process that is par-

tially or completed automated. In other words, electronic means are provided for casting 

votes, counting votes, or both. Thus, you may see the phrase used in different ways, 

depending on the implied meaning. In this book, we use the phrase to mean complete 
automation of the voting process from end to end. Note, however, that other people 

focus on specific activities in the voting process (maintaining lists of registered voters 

or transmitting votes from a voting booth to a central tabulation facility) that could be 

done electronically. In particular, casting votes on the Internet has popular appeal, and 

so some people look at that as electronic voting. We recognize the importance of these 

individual efforts but want to consider the full case.
Casting BallotsBallots can be cast electronically in many ways, including with punched cards, tele-
phones, optical character readers, secure web pages, or special devices that support vote 

capture by touch screen or other input technology. For instance, Tony Blair, British prime 

minister, announced in July 2002 that in the British 2006 general election, citizens would 

vote in any of four ways: online (by Internet) from a work or home location, by mail, by 

touch-tone telephone, or at polling places through online terminals. Then all the votes 

would be counted electronically. Similarly, in Brazil, where voting is mandatory and 

fines are imposed for not voting, every jurisdiction has special-purpose voting machines 

that look like a variation of a bank’s 

automated teller devices. Brazilians 

cast their ballots from anywhere 

in the country, designating desired 

selections by using a unique number 
associated with each candidate. Specialized voting devices are sometimes called direct-recording electronic voting 
systems, or DREs; they capture a voter’s choices automatically from touch screens, 

electronic pens, or other input devices. There are also hybrid technologies. For instance, 

a machine may electronically record a vote but then generate a paper copy that the 
Paper-based and electronic elections 

both have weaknesses. Choosing one 
form requires evaluating the pros and 

cons of both.Electronic voting machines can make 

voting easier, which might increase 

voter turnout.
