484 Chapter 6  
Networksremember past situations and sometimes recognize connections or similarities that an IDS may not detect.Unfortunately, generating an alarm requires that a human be constantly available to 
respond to that alarm and that the response be timely and appropriate. If multiple sen-

sors generate alarms at the same time, the human can become overloaded and miss new 

alarms or be so involved with one that the second alarm is not handled quickly enough. 

Worse, the second alarm can so distract or confuse the human, that action on the first 

alarm is jeopardized. In Sidebar 6-25 we discuss how too many alarms contributed to a 

serious breach.SIDEBAR 6-25  
Target Corp. Overwhelmed by Too Many 
AlarmsIn late 2013 what now turns out to have been Russian hackers infiltrated 
the network of Target, a major retailer in the United States. The attackers 

planted code to collect shoppers’ credit and debit card numbers, includ-

ing the verification number that would make those numbers quite valuable 
on the black market. In all, 40 million numbers were stolen in a few weeks 

leading up to Christmas, typically a retailer’s busiest shopping period of 

the year.
Target had invested in intrusion detection technology, which was 
working and noticed suspicious activity. The software notified Target’s secu-

rity monitoring center which analyzed the situation and raised an alert to the 

firm’s security operations center on 30 November and again on 2 Decem-

ber. The staff of the security operations center did nothing.
“Like any large company, each week at Target there are a vast number of 
technical events that take place and are logged. Through our investigation, 

we learned that after these criminals entered our network, a small amount 

of their activity was logged and surfaced to our team,” said Target spokes-

woman Molly Snyder via email. “That activity was evaluated and acted upon.” 

[SCH14]The threats received were classified as “malware.binary” meaning an 
unidentified piece of malicious code of unknown type, source, or capability. 

Some experts say they expect the Target security team received hundreds 

of such threat alerts every day. 
This story points out the difficulty of using IDS technology: Unless 
someone acts on the alarms produced, raising the warning has no value. 

But sometimes the number of alarms is so large the response team is 

swamped. With too many alarms, responders can become complacent, 

ignoring serious situations because investigation of previous alerts turned 

up empty.
