606 Chapter 9  
PrivacyAnonymity, while having benefits, can also create problems. If you are trying to be 
anonymous, how do you pay for something? You might use a trusted third party (for 

example, a real estate agent or a lawyer) to complete the sale and preserve your ano-

nymity. But then the third party knows who you are. David Chaum [CHA81, CHA82, 

CHA85] studied this problem and devised a set of protocols by which such payments 

could occur without revealing the buyer to the seller.
Multiple Identities—Linked or NotMost people already have multiple identities. To your bank, you are your account num-
ber. To your motor vehicles bureau, you are your driver’s license number. And to your 

credit card company, you are your credit card number. For particular purposes, these 

numbers are your identity; the fact that each may (or may not) be held in your name is 

irrelevant. The name becomes important if it is used as a way to link these numbers and 

their associated records. How many people share your name? Can (or should) there be a 

key value to link these separate databases? And what complications arise when we con-

sider misspellings and multiple valid forms of your name (with and without middle ini-

tial, with full middle name, with one of two middle names if you have two, and so forth)?
Moreover, what if you have a commonly used name, or your name changes at some 
time? Suppose you change your name legally but never change the name on your credit 

card. Then your name cannot easily be used as a key on which to link. You might try to 

use a secondary characteristic as verifier, such as address. However, address presents 

another risk: Perhaps a criminal lived in your house before you bought it. You should 

not have to defend your reputation because of an unrelated previous occupant. We could 

match on date, too, so we connect only people who actually lived in a house at the same 

time. But then group houses or roommates of convenience present additional problems. 

As computer scientists, we know that programming all these possibilities is possible 

but requires careful and time-consuming consideration of the potential problems 
before
 designing the solution. Alas, we know that too frequently such unusual but critical pecu-

liarities are not considered until after code is developed and installed, and then each 

exceptional case is considered alone and often in haste. We can see the potential for 

misuse and inaccuracy. 
Linking identities correctly to create dossiers and break anonymity creates privacy 
risks, but linking them incorrectly creates much more serious risks for the use of the 

data and the privacy of affected people. If we think carefully, we can determine many of 

the ways such a system would fail—an approach that may be effective but is potentially 

expensive and time consuming. The temptation to act quickly but inaccurately will also 

affect privacy.
PseudonymitySometimes, we don’t want full anonymity. You may want to order flower bulbs but 
not be placed on numerous mailing lists for gardening supplies. But you also want to 

be able to place similar orders again, asking for the same color tulips as before. This 

situation calls for pseudonyms, unique identifiers that can be used to link records in a 

server’s database but that cannot be used to trace back to a real identity.
