 Section 4.4  Email Attacks 
271  email message. As you have seen in other examples in this chapter, users do not know 
what a computer really does. You click a link offering you a free prize, and you have 

actually just signed your computer up to be a controlled agent (and incidentally, you did 

not win the prize). Spam email with misleading links is an important vector for enlisting 

computers as bots.Links to Malicious Web Sites 
Similarly, shady, often pornographic, web sites want ways to locate and attract custom-

ers. And people who want to disseminate malicious code seek victims. Some sites push 

their content on users, but many want to draw users to the site. Even if it is spam, an 

email message makes a good way to offer such a site to potentially interested parties.
The Price Is Right Finally, the price—virtually free—makes spam attractive to advertisers. A spam sender 

has to rent a list of target addresses, pay to compose and send messages, and cover the 

service provider’s fees. These terms are all small, and the cost of spam is low. How else 

would spammers stay in business?
Spam is part of a separate, unregulated economy for activities that range from ques-
tionable to illegal. Its perpetrators can move from one political jurisdiction to another to 

stay ahead of legal challenges. And because it is an off-the-books enterprise without a 

home, it can avoid taxes and investigation, making it a natural bedfellow with other shady 

dealings. It is lucrative enough to remain alive and support its perpetrators comfortably.
What to Do about Spam?At about 70 percent of Internet email activity, Spam consumes a significant share of 
resources. Without spam, ISPs and telecommunications backbone companies could 

save significantly on expanding capacity. What options are there for eliminating, reduc-

ing, or regulating spam?
Legal Numerous countries and other jurisdictions have tried to make the sending of mas-

sive amounts of unwanted email illegal. In the United States, the CAN-SPAM act of 

2003 and Directive 2002/58/EC of 

the European Parliament are two 

early laws restricting the sending of 

spam; most industrialized countries 
have similar legislation. The prob-

lems with all these efforts are juris-

diction, scope, and redress.A country is limited in what it can require of people outside its borders. Sending 
unsolicited email from one person in a country to another in the same country easily fits 

the model of activity a law can regulate: Search warrants, assets, subpoenas, and trials 

all are within the courts’ jurisdiction. But when the sender is outside the United States, 

these legal tools are harder to apply, if they can be applied at all. Because most spam is 

multinational in nature—originating in one country, sent through telecommunications 
Spam is not yet annoying, harmful, 
or expensive enough to motivate 
international action to stop it.
