 Section 2.1  Authentication 
51  Other Things KnownPasswords, or rather something only the user knows, are one form of strong authentica-
tion. Passwords are easy to create and administer, inexpensive to use, and easy to under-

stand. However, users too often choose passwords that are easy for them to remember, 

but not coincidentally easy for others to guess. Also, users can forget passwords or tell 

them to others. Passwords come from the authentication factor of something the user 

knows, and unfortunately people’s brains are imperfect. 
Consequently, several other approaches to “something the user knows” have been 
proposed. For example, Sidebar 2-5 describes authentication approaches employing a 

user’s knowledge instead of a password. However, few user knowledge authentication 

techniques have been well tested and few scale up in any useful way; these approaches 

are still being researched.SIDEBAR 2-4  
Usability in the Small versus Usability in the LargeTo an application developer seeking a reasonable control, a password 
seems to be a straightforward mechanism for protecting an asset. But when 

many applications require passwords, the user’s simple job of remember-

ing one or two passwords is transformed into the nightmare of keeping 

track of a large number of them. Indeed, a visit to http://www.password 

book.com suggests that users often have difficulty managing a collection 

of passwords. The site introduces you to a password and login organizer 

that is cheaply and easily purchased. In the words of the vendor, it is “The 

complete password manager for the busy Web master or network adminis-

trator . . . Safe and easy, books don’t crash! Now you can manage all your 
passwords in one hardbound book.”
Although managing one password or token for an application might 
seem easy (we call it “usability in the small”), managing many passwords 

or tokens at once becomes a daunting task (“usability in the large”). The 

problem of remembering a large variety of items has been documented in 

the psychology literature since the 1950s, when Miller [MIL56] pointed out 

that people remember things by breaking them into memorable chunks, 

whether they are digits, letters, words, or some other identifiable entity. 

Miller initially documented how young adults had a memory span of seven 

(plus or minus two) chunks. Subsequent research revealed that the memory 

span depends on the nature of the chunk: longer chunks led to shorter 

memory spans: seven for digits, six for letters, and five for words. Other 

factors affect a person’s memory span, too. Cowan [COW01] suggests that 

we assume a working memory span of four chunks for young adults, with 

shorter spans for children and senior citizens. For these reasons, usabil-

ity should inform not only the choice of appropriate password construction 

(the small) but also the security architecture itself (the large).
