 Section 6.1  Network Concepts 
345  the attacker might carefully expose some of the outer conductor, connect to it, then 
carefully expose some of the inner conductor and connect to it. Both of these operations 

alter the resistance, called the impedance, of the cable. In the first case, the repair itself 

alters the impedance, and the impedance change can be explained (or concealed) as 

part of the repair. In the second case, a little social engineering can explain the change. 

(“Hello, this is Matt, a technician with Bignetworks. We are changing some equipment 

on our end, and so you might notice a change in impedance.”)
Some LANs have a fixed set of devices that rarely change; with other LANs, people 
add and remove devices frequently enough that change is not an exceptional event. In an 

office, employees power up workstations that have been shut off for the night, visiting 

employees connect laptops to the network, and technicians add and remove monitoring 

gear to maintain the network. Adding one more device may pass unnoticed. An attacker 

only needs to find an unused network connection point and plug in.
Another way to intercept from a LAN is to find the wiring closet or panel, the place 
where the wires of the network all come together and from which network adminis-

trators can reconfigure the LAN’s topology, for example, by routing one set of wires 

through a switch to make a separate subnet. With a device called a 
sniffer someone can 
connect to and intercept all traffic on a network; the sniffer can capture and retain data 

or forward it to a different network.
Signals on a network are multiplexed, meaning that more than one signal is transmit-
ted at a given time. For example, two analog (sound) signals can be combined, like two 

tones in a musical chord, and two digital signals can be combined by interleaving, like 

playing cards being shuffled. A LAN carries distinct packets, but data on a WAN may 

be heavily multiplexed as it leaves its sending host. Thus, a wiretapper on a WAN needs 

to be able not only to intercept the desired communication but also to extract it from the 

others with which it is multiplexed. While this can be done, the effort involved means 

that the technique will be used sparingly.
Optical FiberOptical fiber offers two significant security advantages over other transmission media. 
First, the entire optical network must be tuned carefully each time a new connection is 

made. Therefore, no one can tap an optical system without detection. Clipping just one 

fiber in a bundle will destroy the balance in the network.
Second, optical fiber carries light energy, not electricity. Light does not create a mag-
netic field as electricity does. Therefore, an inductive tap is impossible on an optical 

fiber cable.
Just using fiber, however, does not guarantee security, any more than does just using 
encryption. The repeaters, splices, and taps along a cable are places at which data may 

be available more easily than in the fiber cable itself. The connections from computing 

equipment to the fiber may also be points for penetration. By itself, fiber is much more 

secure than cable, but it has vulnerabilities, too.
Physical cables are thus susceptible to a range of interception threats. But pulling off 
such an intrusion requires physical access to one of the cables carrying the communica-
tion of interest, no small feat. In many cases pulling data from the air is easier, as we 

describe next.
