640 Chapter 9  
PrivacyThe Owlet Smart Sock is designed for monitoring babies. “Wrap the 
Owlet Smart Sock around your infant’s ankle and you’ll be able to use an app 

to keep an eye on body temperature, heart rate, blood oxygen level, sleep 

quality, and rollovers.” [TAU14] And once your child’s Smart Diaper is wet, 

you can scan the diaper’s QR code. “Reagents in the diaper detect whether 

your baby has a urinary tract infection, is dehydrated or may be develop-

ing kidney problems.” Similar sensors and applications monitor whether you 

have exercised, taken your medication, eaten properly, or changed your rou-

tine (by, for example, not turning lights on and off in your usual way).
The companies using these sensors are sometimes aware of their 
privacy implications. “‘The creepiness case is something we will pay very 

much attention to,’ said Jim Buczkowski, Ford’s director of electrical and 

electronics research. ‘Consumers need to be able to opt in or out of being 

watched.’”
In many cases, there are calls for more monitoring. Wald [WAL14] 
reports that experts in the automotive industry are considering installing 

“black boxes” akin to those used in aircraft. “Unraveling a problem like the 

[Chevrolet] Cobalt’s, with a faulty ignition switch that tended to turn off the 

engine and disable the air bags, is hard,” said one expert, so “we’ve got 

to do a full press on whatever we have that can help us to get to that story 

more quickly.” Many new cars have black boxes now; it is not clear whether 

the boxes will soon be mandatory.
Wald points out that it is easier to protect privacy in aircraft than in 
automobiles. “Big airliners are equipped with a device that copies the infor-

mation that goes into the flight data recorder, in a format that allows easy 

download after ordinary flights. Analysts aggregate information from thou-

sands of flights and look for indications of latent problems, like extreme 

maneuvers, even if they did not cause death or injury. In cars, the black box 

captures much less data and none for ordinary trips.” And because you are 

most likely to be driving your car, the black box can capture evidence of 

unwelcome behavior, such as speeding or weaving through traffic.
Juels [JUE05] presents several privacy-restoring approaches to RFID use. Among 
the ideas he proposes are blasting (disabling a tag), blocking (shielding a tag to block its 
access by a reader), reprogramming (so a tag emits a different number), and encrypting 

(so the output is selectively available).
RFID technology is still very young, but its use is growing rapidly. As with similarly 
sensitive technologies, protecting privacy will be easier before the uses proliferate. 
Electronic Voting
Voting is another area in which privacy is important. We want votes to be private, but at 

the same time we want a way to demonstrate that all collected votes are authentic. With 

careful control of paper ballots, we can largely satisfy both those requirements, but the 
SIDEBAR 9-8 Continued