798 Chapter 12  
Details of CryptographyCombining these last two results with (a) produces
(Pe)d= Pe*d= Pk*(n)+1= Pmod p= Pmod q qso that()PPn
ed   mod 
and e and d are inverse operations.
Use of the AlgorithmThe user of the RSA algorithm chooses primes p and 
q, from which the value 
n  p  q is obtained. Next, 
e is chosen to be relatively prime to (
p − 1)  (q − 1); e is usually 
a prime larger than (
p − 1) or (q − 1). Finally, 
d is computed as the inverse of 
e mod 
((n)).The user distributes 
e and n and keeps 
d secret; p, q, and (n) may be discarded (but 
not revealed) at this point. Notice that even though 
n is known to be the product of two 
primes, if they are relatively large (such as 100 digits long), it will not be feasible to 

determine the primes p and 
q or the private key 
d from 
e. Therefore, this scheme pro-
vides adequate security for d.It is not even practical to verify that 
p and q themselves are primes, since that would 
require considering on the order of 1050 possible factors. A heuristic algorithm from 
Solovay and Strassen [SOL77] can determine the probability of primality to any desired 

degree of confidence.
Every prime number passes two tests. If 
p is prime and 
r is any number less than 
p, thengcd(p, r)  1(where gcd is the greatest common divisor function) and
J(r, p)  r(p–1)/2 mod pwhere J(r,p) is the Jacobi function
 defined as follows.
JrpJrp
Jpr, r
rr
rrprp(,( ) =
1(/2, )  ( 1)
 mod )  ( 1)
       if  = 1
if  is even

if  is odd and   1
(1)/8
(1)(1)/4
2−−
If a number is suspected to be prime but fails either of these tests, it is definitely 
not a prime. If a number is suspected to be a prime and passes both of these tests, the likeli-

hood that it is prime is at least 1/2.The problem relative to the RSA algorithm is to find two large primes 
p and q. With 
the Solovay and Strassen approach, you first guess a large candidate prime 
p. You then 
generate a random number r and compute gcd(
p,r) and J(r, p). If either of these tests fails, 
p was not a prime, and you stop the procedure. If both pass, the likelihood that 
p 