518 Chapter 7  
Databases7.4 DATABASE DISCLOSURE
As we describe in Chapter 9, more data are being collected about more people than 
ever before. In the past a single company, organization, or government office knew 

only about its clients or patrons; there was little sharing between organizations. And 

the number or kinds of places that collected data were small. Yes, we expect offices to 

keep records on us, but not to include every street, cash register, and web site we visit. 

Computers, of course, have made feasible not only the collection but also the sharing of 

these massive amounts of data.
Databases contain thoughts, preferences, opinions, activities (or their descriptions), 
fantasies, friends, and connections. From these databases people can draw inferences 

that may be accurate or false: Jamie is your friend. Jamie likes frogs. Ergo, you like 

frogs. Obviously, this is faulty logic, although it might also be true. In the next section 

we explore how people and computers analyze such databases for data connections that 

lead to unacceptable data disclosure.Sensitive DataSome databases contain what is called sensitive data. As a working definition, let us 

say that sensitive data are data that should not be made public. Determining which data 

items and fields are sensitive depends both on the individual database and the underly-

ing meaning of the data. Obviously, some databases, such as a public library catalog, 

contain no sensitive data; other databases, such as defense-related ones, are wholly sen-

sitive. These two cases—nothing sensitive and everything sensitive—are the easiest to 

handle, because they can be covered by access controls to the database as a whole. 

Someone either is or is not an authorized user. These controls can be provided by the 

operating system.The more difficult problem, which is also the more interesting one, is the case in 
which some but not all 
of the elements in the database are sensitive. There may be 
varying degrees of sensitivity. For example, a university database might contain student 

data consisting of name, financial aid, dorm, drug use, sex, parking fines, and race. An 

example of this database is shown in Table 7-6. Name and dorm are probably the least 

sensitive; financial aid, parking fines, and drug use the most; sex and race somewhere 

in between. That is, many people may have legitimate access to name, some to sex and 

race, and relatively few to financial aid, parking fines, or drug use. Indeed, knowledge 

of the existence of some fields, such as drug use, may itself be sensitive. Thus, security 

concerns not only the data elements but their context and meaning. 
Furthermore, we must account for different degrees of sensitivity. For instance, 
although all the fields are highly sensitive, the financial aid, parking fines, and drug-use 

fields may not have the same kinds of access restrictions. Our security requirements 

may demand that a few people be authorized to see each field, but no one be authorized 

to see all three. The challenge of the access control problem is to limit users’ access so 

that they can obtain only the data to which they have legitimate access. Alternatively, 

the access control problem forces us to ensure that sensitive data are not released to 

unauthorized people.