 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
383  But is it legal to connect with any wireless signal detected? In separate cases, Ben-
jamin Smith III in Florida in July 2005 and Dennis Kauchak in Illinois in March 2006 
were convicted of remotely accessing a computer wirelessly without the owner’s per-

mission. Kauchak was sentenced to a $250 fine. So, even though you are able to con-

nect, it may not be legal to do so.
With these three areas of possible security failing, we next look at specific wireless 
attacks and countermeasures.Unauthorized WiFi AccessAn unauthorized device can attempt to establish an association with an access point. 
Remember from the WiFi protocols that access basically involves three steps:
1. The access point broadcasts its availability by sending a beacon,
 an invitation 
for devices to connect with it.
2. A device’s NIC responds with a request to authenticate, which the access point 
accepts.3. The device’s NIC requests establishment of an association, which the access 
point negotiates and accepts.
default SSID and no encryption is the equivalent of a box saying “here I am, 
please use my wireless network.”
While helping a friend set up his home network in the United States, a consultant had a wireless-enabled laptop. When he scanned to find his 

friend’s (secured) access point, he found five others near enough to get 

a good signal; three were running unsecured, and two of those three had 

SSIDs obvious enough to guess easily to which neighbors they belonged.Just because a network is available does not mean it is safe. A rogue 
access point is another means to intercept sensitive information. All you 

have to do is broadcast an open access point in a coffee shop or near 

a major office building, allow people to connect, and then use a network 

sniffer to copy traffic surreptitiously. Most commercial sites employ encryp-

tion (such as the SSL algorithm, which we describe later in this chapter) 

when obtaining sensitive information, so a user’s financial or personal iden-

tification should not be exposed. But many other kinds of data, such as 

passwords or email messages, are open for the taking.
The appeal of war driving has waned for several reasons. First, the 
increase in free public WiFi hot spots in coffee shops, bookstores, hotels, 

libraries, and similar places has reduced the motivation for finding WiFi sig-

nals. Second, the risks of connecting to an unsecured access point are 

high: Some unsecured WiFi connections are intentional magnets to lure 

unsuspecting clients in order to intercept sensitive data from the wire-

less connection. Finally, because many people have Internet-enabled cell 

phones, they use a phone for brief access instead of a computer with WiFi. 
Thus, the war-driving activity of locating and mapping wireless access 

points has largely stopped.