 Section 11.5  Computer Crime 
743  and down each year, which demonstrates that attackers can and do operate from many 
different countries. Countries frequently attacked include places like the United States 

and Europe because the proportion of computer users is high; countries frequently the 
source of Internet attacks include Russia, Brazil, India, and the United States, again in 
part because of the large number of proficient computer users in these countries.
Complexity is an even more significant factor than country of origin. As we have 
stated throughout this book, networked attacks are hard to trace and investigate because 

they can involve so many steps. A smart attacker will “bounce” an attack through many 

places to obscure the trail. Each step along the way makes the investigator complete 

more legal steps. If the trail leads from server A to B to C, the law enforcement investiga-

tors need a search warrant for data at A, and others for B and C. Even after obtaining the 

search warrants, the investigator has 

to find the right administrator and 

serve the warrants to begin obtain-

ing data. In the time the investigator 

has to get and serve warrants, not to 

mention follow leads and correlate 

findings, the attacker has carefully 

erased the digital evidence.
In a CNET News
 article, Sandoval [SAN02] says law enforcement agencies are 
rarely able to track down hackers sophisticated enough to pull off complicated attacks. 

Sandoval quotes Richard Power, editorial director of the Computer Security Institute: 

“It’s a world class business.” Independent investigator Dan Clements says, “only about 

10 percent of active hackers are savvy enough to work this way consistently, but they 

are almost always successful.”
What Computer Crime Does Not Address
Even with the definitions included in the statutes, the courts must interpret what a computer 

is. Legislators cannot define precisely what a computer is because computer technology 

is used in many other devices, such as robots, calculators, watches, automobiles, micro-

wave ovens, and medical instruments. More importantly, we cannot predict what kinds of 

devices may be invented ten or fifty years from now. Therefore, the language in each of 

these laws indicates the kinds of devices the legislature seeks to include as computers and 

leaves it up to the court to rule on a specific case. Unfortunately, it takes a while for courts 

to build up a pattern of cases, and different courts may rule differently in similar situations. 

The interpretation of each of these terms will be unsettled for some time to come.Both the value of a person’s privacy and the confidentiality of data about a person are 
even less settled. In a later section we consider how ethics and individual morality take 

over where the law stops.
Summary of Legal Issues in Computer SecurityThis section has described four aspects of the relationship between computing and the 
law. First, we presented the legal mechanisms of copyright, patent, and trade secret 

as means to protect the secrecy of computer hardware, software, and data. These 
Computer attacks affecting many people 

tend to be complex, involving people 
and facilities in several countries, thus 
complicating prosecution.
