 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
419  Kaminsky noticed a flaw in this progression: namely, that these queries remain 
open until answered and that a response matching the ID number for the query will be 
cached. If an attacker can guess the sequence of query ID numbers, the attacker can 

forge a response that satisfies an open query’s ID; that forged reply can provide any 

address as a response. Until the response is removed from the cache, all traffic for the 

requested address will be directed 

to the address given in the forged 

reply. Thus, by predicting sequence 

numbers correctly and generating 

network traffic to a specific name 

server, the attacker can redirect traf-

fic silently to a selected address.
This example shows the vulnerability of predictable sequence numbers. A counter-
measure for this type of attack is an unpredictable
 series of sequence numbers, prefer-
ably drawn from a large range of possibilities.
For years, the Internet governing bodies have been working to implement a protec-
tion against such replay and hijack attacks. This objective is addressed with 
DNSSEC, the DNS security extension (RFC 4033 [ARE05]). In June 2010, the first root DNS 

server was assigned a private key for signing DNS records; other root servers will be 

assigned keys. Every DNS record at the root level will be signed and published, along 

with the root administrator’s public key, in the DNS itself. As root name servers’ records 

are signed, other name servers will gradually acquire public keys and sign their records. 

Ultimately, a client’s address request will also entail obtaining and checking the signa-

tures of all records that were part of the name resolution path.Exploiting Known Vulnerabilities
Assailants have no shortage of tools with which to begin an attack. Hacker tools often 

begin with a known vulnerability, sometimes a well-known one for which a patch has 

long been available; people have a habit of failing to apply patches to older systems 

or ones in remote locations. Failure to patch systems is becoming a serious problem 

because of the time between publicity concerning a vulnerability and its first exploita-

tion. Symantec [SYM10] reported that in 2009, the window between disclosure and 

exploitation was less than one day on average for the 28 vulnerabilities Microsoft 

patched in Internet Explorer; exploits emerged on average two days after the vulner-

ability was made known. The window between the day a patch is available and the day 

the vulnerability is first exploited is very short indeed. Furthermore, in 2009, Symantec 

identified 12 zero-day exploits. A 
zero-day exploit
 is one for which an exploitation 
occurs before the vulnerability is publicly known and hence before a patch is available.
Some tools, such as R-U-Dead-Yet and EvilGrade, check for many vulnerabilities. 
Trojan horses, viruses, and other kinds of malware can form a base for a denial-of- 

service attack. One popular but especially effective attack toolkit is Zeus, which costs 

less than $700 but also circulates for free in the hacker underground. Security firm 

Symantec has documented over 90,000 variants of Zeus [SYM10]. In tools such as 

these, denial of service is sometimes a by-product; the tool exploits a vulnerability that 
In cache poisoning an incorrect name-to-

address DNS conversion is placed in and 

remains in a translation cache.
