690 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsPersonal computers, laptops, smartphones, and personal digital assistants (PDAs, 
such as tablets or Blackberries) are designed to be small and portable. Flash drives or 

memory sticks are easily carried in a pocket or briefcase. Computers and media that are 

easy to carry are also easy to conceal. We can take one of three approaches to preventing theft: preventing access, prevent-
ing portability, or detecting exit.
Preventing AccessThe surest way to prevent theft is to keep the thief away from the equipment. However, 

thieves can be either insiders or outsiders. Therefore, access control devices are needed 

both to prevent access by unauthorized individuals and to record access by those autho-

rized. A record of accesses can help identify who committed a theft.
The oldest access control is a guard, not in the firewall sense we discussed in Chapter 
6 but in the sense of a human being stationed at the door to control access to a room or 

to equipment. Guards offer traditional protection; their role is well understood, and the 

protection they offer is adequate in many situations. However, guards must be on duty 

continuously in order to be effective; permitting breaks implies at least four guards for a 

24-hour operation, with extras for vacation and illness. A guard must personally recog-

nize someone or recognize an access token, such as a badge. People can lose or forget 

badges; terminated employees and forged badges are also problems. Unless the guards 

make a record of everyone who has entered a facility, the security staff cannot know 

who (employee or visitor) has had access before a problem is discovered.
The second oldest access control is a lock. This device is even easier, cheaper, and 
simpler to manage than a guard. However, it too generates no record of who has had 

access, and difficulties arise when keys are lost or duplicated. At computer facilities, 

you cannot fumble for a key when your hands are filled with devices that might be 

ruined if dropped. A site also cannot ignore piggybacking: a person who walks through 

the door that someone else has just unlocked. Still, guards and locks afford simple, 

effective security for access to facilities such as computer rooms. In many situations, 

simple is better.
More exotic access control devices employ cards with radio transmitters, magnetic 
stripe cards (similar to bank cards), and smart cards with chips containing electronic 
circuitry that makes them difficult to duplicate. Because each of these devices interfaces 

with a computer, the computer can capture identity information, generating a list of who 

entered and left the facility, when, and by which routes. Some of these devices operate 

by proximity, so that a person can carry the device in a pocket or clipped to a collar; the 

person obtains easy access even when both hands are full. Because these devices are 

computer controlled, the system administrators can readily invalidate an access author-

ity when someone quits or reports the access token lost or stolen.
The nature of the application or service determines how strict the access control 
needs to be. Working in concert with computer-based authentication techniques, the 

access controls can be part of defense in depth—using multiple mechanisms to provide 

security.
