712 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsRequirement of Novelty
If two composers happen to compose the same song independently at different times, 
copyright law would allow both of them to have copyright. If two inventors devise the 

same invention, the patent goes to the person who invented it first, regardless of who 

first filed the patent. A patent can be valid only for something that is truly novel or 

unique, so there can be only one patent for a given invention.
An object patented must also be nonobvious. If an invention would be obvious to a 
person ordinarily skilled in the field, it cannot be patented. The law states that a patent 

cannot be obtained “if the differences between the subject matter sought to be patented 
and the prior art are such that the subject matter as a whole would have been obvious 

at the time the invention was made to a person having ordinary skill in the art to which 

said subject matter pertains.” For example, a piece of cardboard to be used as a book-

mark would not be a likely candidate for a patent because the idea of a piece of card-

board would be obvious to almost any reader.
Procedure for Registering a Patent
An applicant registers a copyright by filing a brief form, marking a copyright notice on 
the creative work, and distributing the work. The whole process takes less than an hour.
To obtain a patent, an inventor must convince the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office 
that the invention deserves a patent. For a fee, a patent attorney will research the pat-

ents already issued for similar inventions. This search accomplishes two things. First, 

it determines that the invention to be patented has not already been patented (and, pre-

sumably, has not been previously invented). Second, the search can help identify similar 

things that have been patented. These similarities can be useful when describing the 

unique features of the invention that make it worthy of patent protection. The Patent 

Office compares an application to those of all other similar patented inventions and 

decides whether the application covers something truly novel and nonobvious. If the 

office decides the invention is novel, a patent is granted.
Typically, an inventor writes a patent application listing many claims of originality, 
from very general to very specific. The Patent Office may disallow some of the more 

general claims while upholding some of the more specific ones. The patent is valid for 

all the upheld claims. The patent applicant reveals what is novel about the invention in 

sufficient detail to allow the Patent Office and the courts to judge novelty; that degree of 

detail may also tell the world how the invention works, thereby opening the possibility 

of infringement.The patent owner uses the patented invention by producing products or by licensing 
others to produce them. Patented objects are sometimes marked with a patent number to 

warn others that the technology is patented. The patent holder hopes this warning will 

prevent others from infringing.
Patent InfringementA patent holder must oppose all infringement. With a copyright, the holder can 
choose which cases to prosecute, ignoring small infringements and waiting for serious 
