 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
605  Individual Actions to Protect Privacy
So far, we have discussed ways for governments and enterprises to collect, store, and 
share personal information. But there are actions you can take as an individual to pro-

tect your own privacy. One way is to guard your identity. Not every context requires 

each of us to reveal our identity, and there are ways for some people to wear a form of 

electronic mask.AnonymitySometimes people may want to do things anonymously. For example, a rock star buy-
ing a beach house might want to avoid unwanted attention from neighbors, or someone 

posting to a dating list might want to view replies before making a date.
Deirdre Mulligan [MUL99] lists several reasons why people might prefer anony-
mous activity on the web. She explains that some people like web anonymity because 

it reduces fears of discrimination. Fairness in housing, employment, and association 

are easier to ensure when the basis for potential discrimination is hidden. Also, people 

researching what they consider a private matter, such as a health issue or sexual orienta-

tion, may be more likely to seek information first from what they consider an anony-

mous source, turning to a human when they have found out more about their situation. 
Recall that the European Privacy Directive prohibits the use of data for 
purposes other than those for which they were collected. The U.S. request 

clearly violated the directive. After considerable negotiation, the European 

Commission and the European Council reached an agreement in May 2004 

to allow airlines to give the data to the United States.However, the European Parliament objected, and on 30 May 2006, the 
European Court of Justice, the highest court in the European Union, ruled 

that the European Commission and European Council lacked authority to 

make such a deal with the United States. Privacy principles were not the 

primary basis for the ruling, but they had a big impact nevertheless: “Spe-

cifically, the court said passenger records were collected by airlines for 

their own commercial use, so the European Union could not legally agree 

to provide them to the American authorities, even for the purposes of public 

security or law enforcement.” [CLA06] A spokesperson for the U.S. Depart-

ment of Homeland Security countered that privacy is not the issue, since 

the data could be solicited from each passenger who arrives in the United 

States.Without the requested data, the United States could in theory deny 
landing rights to the nonparticipating airlines. Nearly half of all foreign air 

travel to the United States is trans-Atlantic, so the disruption could cost 

millions to all the economies involved. This clash of privacy principles was 
resolved by creating a set of “Safe Harbor” practices that ensure adequate 

protection for the individuals whose data are being transferred. A Safe 

Harbor framework has also been established between the United States 

and Switzerland (not a member of the European Union) for similar reasons. 

Details of each framework can be found at http://export.gov/safeharbor/.
