 Section 11.5  Computer Crime 
737  • Lack of political impact
. Solving and obtaining a conviction for a murder or 
robbery is popular with the public, and so it gets high priority with prosecutors 
and police chiefs. Solving and obtaining a conviction for an obscure high-tech 

crime, especially one not involving obvious and significant loss, may get less 

attention. However, as computing becomes more pervasive, the visibility and 

impact of computer crime will increase.• Complexity of case
. Basic crimes that everyone understands, such as murder, kid-
napping, or auto theft, can be easy to prosecute. A complex money-laundering  

or tax fraud case may be more difficult to present to a jury because jurors have 

a hard time following a circuitous accounting trail. But the hardest crime to 

present may be a high-tech crime, described, for example, as root access by a 

buffer overflow in which memory was overwritten by other instructions, which 

allowed the attacker to copy and execute code at will and then delete the code, 

eliminating all traces of entry (after disabling the audit logging, of course).• Age of defendant. 
Many computer crimes are committed by juveniles. Society 
understands immaturity and disregards even very serious crimes by juveniles 

because the juveniles did not understand the impact of their actions. A more 

serious, related problem is that many adults see juvenile computer crimes as 

childhood pranks, the modern equivalent of tipping over an outhouse.
Even when there is clear evidence of a crime, the victim may not want to pros-
ecute because of possible negative publicity. Banks, insurance companies, investment 

firms, the government, and health-

care groups think their trust by 

the public will be diminished if a 

computer vulnerability is exposed. 

Also, they may fear repetition of 

the same crime by others: so-called 
copycat crimes. For all of these rea-

sons, computer crimes are often not 
prosecuted.Examples of StatutesAs a few examples from the 1980s have pointed out, in the early days, prosecution of 

computer crimes was hampered by lack of clear appreciation of the nature or serious-

ness of crime involving computers. Although theft, harm to persons, and damage to 

property have been crimes for a long time, in some cases new laws were useful to make 

it obvious to the courts what computer-related behavior was unacceptable. Most states 

now have laws covering computer crime of one sort or another. Also, computer-related 

crimes now appear in sentencing guidelines.
In this section we highlight a few of the laws defining aspects of crime against or 
using computers.Computer crime is often complex, so 
explaining it to a jury is difficult and 

uncertain. Faced with free choice, 

prosecutors may prefer a simpler murder 

or robbery.
