 Section 10.1  Security Planning 
649  the important items or help you choose something you can complete if you have a few 
free minutes.A good security plan is an official record of current security practices, plus a blue-
print for orderly change to improve those practices. By following the plan, developers 

and users can measure the effect of proposed changes, leading eventually to further 

improvements. The impact of the security plan is important, too. A carefully written 

plan, supported by management, notifies employees that security is important to man-

agement (and therefore to everyone). Thus, the security plan has to have appropriate 

content and has to produce desired effects.
In this section we study how to define and implement a security plan. We focus on 
three aspects of writing a security plan: what it should contain, who writes it, and how 

to obtain support for it. Then, we address two specific cases of security plans: business 

continuity plans, to ensure that an organization continues to function in spite of a com-

puter security incident, and incident response plans, to organize activity to deal with the 

crisis of an incident.Contents of a Security PlanA security plan identifies and organizes the security activities for a computing system. 

The plan is both a description of the current situation and a map for improvement. 

Every security plan must address seven issues:
• policy,
 indicating the goals of a computer security effort and the willingness of 
the people involved to work to achieve those goals 
• current state
, describing the status of security at the time of the plan• requirements
, recommending ways to meet the security goals
• recommended
 controls
, mapping controls to the vulnerabilities identified in the 
policy and requirements
• accountability, documenting who is responsible for each security activity
• timetable, identifying when different security functions are to be done
• maintenance,
 specifying a structure for periodically updating the security planThere are many approaches to creating and updating a security plan. Some orga-
nizations have a formal, defined security-planning process, much as they might have 

a defined and accepted development or software maintenance process. Others look to 

security professionals for guidance on how to perform security planning. But every 

security plan contains the same basic material, no matter the format. The following sec-

tions expand on the seven parts of a security plan.
PolicyA security plan states the organiza-
tion’s security needs and priorities. 

A security policy is a high-level 

statement of purpose and intent. 

Initially, you might think that all 
A security policy documents an 
organization’s security needs and 

priorities.