 Section 10.1  Security Planning 
657  simply a plan that collects dust on the shelf. Commitment to the plan means that secu-rity functions will be implemented and security activities carried out. Three groups of 

people must contribute to making the plan a success.
• The planning team must be sensitive to the needs of each group affected by 
the plan.• Those affected by the security recommendations must understand what the plan 
means for the way they will use the system and perform their business activities. 

In particular, they must see how what they do can affect other users and other 

systems.• Management must be committed to using and enforcing the security aspects of 
the system.Education and publicity can help people understand and accept a security plan. 
Acceptance involves not only the letter but also the spirit of the security controls. There 

is a story of an employee who went through 24 password changes at a time to get back 

to a favorite password, in a system that prevented use of any of the 23 most recently 

used passwords. Clearly, the employee either did not understand or did not agree with 

the reason for restrictions on passwords. If people understand the need for recom-

mended controls and accept them as sensible, they will use the controls properly and 

effectively. If people think the controls are bothersome, capricious, or counterproduc-

tive, they will work to avoid or subvert them.
Management commitment is obtained through understanding. But this understanding is 
not just a function of what makes sense technologically; it also involves knowing the cause 

and the potential effects of lack of security. Managers must also weigh trade-offs in terms 

of convenience and cost. The plan must present a picture of how cost effective the controls 

are, especially when compared to 

potential losses if security is breached 

without the controls. Thus, proper 

presentation of the plan is essential, 

in terms that relate to management as 

well as technical concerns.Remember that some managers are not computing specialists. Instead, the system 
supports a manager who is an expert in some other business function, such as banking, 

medical technology, or sports. In such cases, the security plan must present security 

risks in language the managers understand. A useful security plan should avoid techni-

cal jargon and educate the readers about the nature of the perceived security risks in the 

context of the business the system supports. Sometimes outside experts can bridge the 

gap between the managers’ business and security.
Management is often reticent to allocate funds for controls before understanding the value of those controls. As we note later in this chapter, the results of a risk analysis 

can help communicate the financial trade-offs and benefits of implementing controls. 

By describing vulnerabilities in financial terms and in the context of ordinary business 

activities (such as leaking data to a competitor or an outsider), security planners can 

help managers understand the need for controls.The plans we have just discussed are part of normal business. They address how a 
business handles computer security needs. Similar plans might address how to increase 
A security plan positions technical 
issues in terms nontechnical people can 
appreciate.
