618 Chapter 9  
PrivacyOne form of data perturbation involves swapping data fields to prevent linking of 
records. Swapping the condition values Erin and Geoff (but not the ID values) breaks 

the linkage of Erin to diabetes. Other properties of the databases are preserved: Three 

patients have actual names and three conditions accurately describe the patients. Swap-

ping all data values can prevent useful analysis, but limited swapping balances privacy 

and accuracy. With our example of swapping just Erin and Geoff, you still know that 

one of the participants has diabetes, but you cannot know if Geoff (who now has ID
1) has been swapped or not. In turn, if you cannot know if a value has been swapped, you 

cannot assume that any such correlation you derive is true. 
Of course, by destroying the links in the database, we also deny researchers the abil-
ity to examine the data for other connections; for example, if the first table also con-

tained age, researchers might want to analyze the data to see if age of patient correlates 

with presence of diabetes. Our example of three data points is, of course, too small for a realistic data-mining 
application, but we constructed it just to show how value swapping would be done. 

A chance of one in three of correctly identifying the person with diabetes seems high 
enough to convince some people that Geoff is the one. But a more realistic example 

would involve a database of many thousands of data points, so the likelihood of a cor-

rect inference becomes minuscule.Consider the more realistic example of larger databases. We might have addresses 
instead of names, and the data mining’s purpose would be to determine if there is a 

correlation between a neighborhood and an illness, such as measles. Swapping all 

addresses would defeat the ability to draw any correct conclusions regarding neigh-

borhood. Swapping a small but significant number of addresses would introduce 

uncertainty to preserve privacy. Some measles patients might be swapped out of the 

high-incidence neighborhoods, but other measles patients would also be swapped in. If 

the neighborhood has a higher incidence than the general population, random swapping 

would cause more losses than gains, thereby reducing the strength of the correlation. 

After value swapping, an already weak correlation might become so weak as to be sta-

tistically insignificant. But a previously strong correlation would still be significant, just 

not as strong.Thus, value swapping is a tech-
nique that can help balance goals 

of privacy and accuracy under data 

mining.Privacy for Aggregation
Aggregation need not directly threaten privacy. As demonstrated in Chapter 7, an aggre-
gate (such as sum, median, or count) often depends on so many data items that the sen-

sitivity of any single contributing item is hidden. Government statistics show this well: 

Census data, labor statistics, and school results show trends and patterns for groups (such 

as a neighborhood or school district) but do not violate the privacy of any single person.
As we also explained in Chapter 7, inference and aggregation attacks work better 
nearer the ends of the distribution. If there are very few or very many points in a data-

base subset, a small number of equations may disclose private data. The mean of one 
Data swapping can help maintain 
reasonable privacy while providing 

usable data for research.
