 Section 11.1  Protecting Programs and Data 
705  conformance with the World Intellectual Property Organization treaty of 1996, an inter-
national copyright standard to which 95 countries adhere.
Copyrights are designed to protect the expression of ideas. Thus, a copyright applies 
to a creative work, such as a story, photograph, song, or pencil sketch. The right to copy 

an expression
 of an idea is protected 
by a copyright. Ideas themselves, 

the law alleges, are free; anyone 

with a bright mind can think up 

anything anyone else can, at least 

in theory. The intention of a copy-

right is to allow regular and free 

exchange of ideas.
The author of a book translates ideas into words on paper. The paper embodies the 
expression of those ideas and is the author’s livelihood. That is, an author hopes to 

earn a living by presenting ideas in such an appealing manner that others will pay to 

read them. (The same protection applies to pieces of music, plays, films, and works of 

art, each of which is a personal expression of ideas.) The law protects an individual’s 

right to earn a living, while recognizing that exchanging ideas supports the intellec-

tual growth of society. The copyright says that a particular 
way of expressing an idea 
belongs to the author. For example, in music, there may be two or three copyrights 

related to a single creation: A composer can copyright a song, an arranger can copyright 

an arrangement of that song, and an artist can copyright a specific performance of that 

arrangement of that song. The price you pay for a ticket to a concert includes compensa-

tion for all three creative expressions.
Copyright gives the author the 
exclusive
 right to make copies of the expression and 
sell them to the public. That is, only the author (or booksellers or others working as the 

author’s agents) can sell new copies of the author’s book. (We consider resales later in 

this chapter.)
Definition of Intellectual Property
The U.S. copyright law (§102) states that a copyright can be registered for “original 
works of authorship fixed in any tangible medium of expression, . . . from which they 
can be perceived, reproduced, or otherwise communicated, either directly or with the aid 

of a machine or device.” Again, the copyright does 
not cover the 
idea being expressed. 
“In no case does copyright protec-

tion for an original work of author-

ship extend to any idea.” The 

copyright must apply to an 
original work, and it must be in some 
tan-gible medium of expression.
Only the originator of the expression is entitled to copyright; if an expression has 
no determinable originator, copyright cannot be granted. Certain works are considered 

to be in the public domain, owned by the public, by no one in particular. Works of the 
U.S. government and many other governments are considered to be in the public domain 

and therefore not subject to copyright. Works generally known, such as the phrase “top 
Copyright protects expression of a 

creative work and promotes exchange 

of ideas.Copyright protects artifacts—

expressions of ideas—not the ideas 

themselves.