 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
627  page before, and also sees that you clicked on broker B5’s advertisement or link some-
time in the past. Based on that history, DoubleClick will probably arrange for B5 to be 

one of the four brokers displayed to you this time. If the cookie also indicates that you 

have previously looked at ads for very expensive cars and jewelry, then DoubleClick 

may also place advertising for full-priced brokers, not discount brokerages, in the other 

three slots. The goal of this service is to present ads that are most likely to interest the 

customer, which is in everybody’s best interest.
But this strategy also lets DoubleClick build a rich dossier of your web-surfing hab-
its. If you visit online gambling sites and then visit a money-lending site, DoubleClick 

knows. If you purchase herbal remedies for high blood pressure and then visit a health 

insurance site, DoubleClick knows. DoubleClick knows what personal information you 

have previously supplied on web forms, such as political affiliation, sexual matters, reli-

gion, financial or medical status, or identity information. Even without your supplying 

private data, merely opening a web page for one political party could put you on that 

party’s solicitation list and other parties’ enemies lists. This type of activity is known 

as online profiling
. Each piece of data is available to the individual firm presenting the 
web page; DoubleClick collects and redistributes these separate data items as a package.
Presumably all browsing is anonymous. But as we have shown previously, login 
IDs, email addresses, and retained shipping or billing details can all lead to matching 
a person with this dossier, so it is no longer an unnamed string of cookies. In 1999, 

DoubleClick bought Abacus, another company maintaining a marketing database. 
 Abacus collects personal shopping data from catalog merchants; with that acquisition, 
DoubleClick gained a way to link personal names and addresses that had previously 

been only patterns of a machine, not a person. These associations represent linkages that are highly likely but not certain, for 
two reasons. First, cookies usually associate activity with a machine, not a user. If all 

members of a family share one machine or if a guest borrows the machine, the appar-

ent connections will be specious. Second, because the cookies associate actions on a 
browser, their results are incomplete if a person uses two or more browsers or accounts 

or machines. You can use these drawbacks to inform your avoidance techniques. But, 

as in many other aspects of privacy, when users do not know what data have been col-

lected, they cannot know the data’s validity.
Web Bugs: Is There an Exterminator?
Cookies are text files stored on your computer. They store and return data for the cook-
ie’s owner, but they cause no action themselves. But web bugs, described in Chapter 

4, are more insidious: they are invisible graphics embedded in an image that resides 

on a web page. Sometimes called a clear GIF or 1  GIF, a web bug is one pixel by 
one pixel, far too small to detect with normal eyesight. To the web browser, the bug’s 

size doesn’t matter. An image is an image, regardless of size; the browser will ask for a 

file, ostensibly to display that image, from the given address. The file, however, is not 

limited to a picture; it can include music or video or more importantly, it can contain an 

executable script, for example, to animate the image downloaded. 
The distinction between a cookie and a bug is enormous. A cookie is a tracking 
device, storing information on your machine that can be read later by the web server, 
