 Section 3.3  Countermeasures 
215  testers need to be able to share patterns and techniques with one another, and to 
do that, testers need some common understanding of the larger process.
6. Variation
. Testing is not a checklist exercise; if it were, we would automate the 
whole process, let a machine do it, and never have product failures. Testers need 

to vary their routine, test different things in different ways, and adapt to suc-

cesses and failures.
7. Boundaries. Because testing can continue indefinitely, some concept of com-
pleteness and sufficiency is necessary. Sometimes, finite resources of time or 

money dictate how much testing is done. A better approach is a rational plan that 

determines what degree of testing is adequate.
Effectiveness of Testing 
The mix of techniques appropriate for testing a given system depends on the system’s 

size, application domain, amount of risk, and many other factors. But understanding the 

effectiveness of each technique helps us know what is right for each particular system. 

For example, Olsen [OLS93] describes the development at Contel IPC of a system con-

taining 184,000 lines of code. He tracked faults discovered during various activities and 

found these differences:
• 17.3 percent of the faults were found during inspections of the system design
• 19.1 percent during component design inspection

• 15.1 percent during code inspection

• 29.4 percent during integration testing

• 16.6 percent during system and regression testing
Only 0.1 percent of the faults were revealed after the system was placed in the field. 
Thus, Olsen’s work shows the importance of using different techniques to uncover dif-

ferent kinds of faults during development; we must not rely on a single method applied 

at one time to catch all problems.Who does the testing? From a security standpoint, independent testing is highly 
desirable; it may prevent a developer from attempting to hide something in a routine or 

keep a subsystem from controlling the tests that will be applied to it. Thus, independent 

testing increases the likelihood that a test will expose the effect of a hidden feature.
Limitations of Testing 
Testing is the most widely accepted assurance technique. As Earl Boebert [BOE92] 

observes, conclusions from testing are based on the actual product being evaluated, not 

on some abstraction or precursor of the product. This realism is a security advantage. 

However, conclusions based on testing are necessarily limited, for the following reasons:
• Testing can demonstrate the 
existence
 of a problem, but passing tests does not 
demonstrate the absence of problems.• Testing adequately within reasonable time or effort is difficult because the com-
binatorial explosion of inputs and internal states makes complete testing com-

plex and time consuming.
