422 Chapter 6  
NetworksSIDEBAR 6-19  
Denial of Service: What a Difference 
a Decade MakesHow much denial-of-service activity is there? As with most computer secu-
rity incidents, reliable, representative statistics are hard to obtain because 

there is no central data collection, sampling approaches vary so there is 

little way to compare values, and no one knows the population the results 

describe. Some results on denial of service from the early 2000s and 2010s 

do show an indisputable change, however.
Researchers at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) studied 
the amount of denial-of-service activity on the Internet [UCS01]. Because 

many DoS attacks use a fictitious return address, the researchers asserted 

that traffic to nonexistent addresses was indicative of the amount of denial-

of-service attacking. They monitored a large, unused address space on the 

Internet for a period of three weeks in 2001. Their discoveries:
• More than 12,000 attacks were aimed at more than 5,000 targets dur-
ing the three-week period.
• SYN floods apparently accounted for more than half of the attacks.

• Half the attacks lasted less than ten minutes, and 90 percent of 
attacks lasted less than an hour.
Steve Gibson of Gibson Research Corporation (GRC) experienced 
several denial-of-service attacks in mid-2001. He collected data for his own 
forensic purposes [GIB01]. The first attack lasted 17 hours, at which point 

he managed to reconfigure the router connecting him to the Internet so as 

to block the attack. During those 17 hours he found his site was attacked by 

474 Windows-based PCs. A later attack lasted 6.5 hours before it stopped 

by itself. These attacks were later found to have been launched by a 

13-year old from Kenosha, Wisconsin.
By the end of the decade things had changed considerably. 

Networking firm Arbor Networks specializes in providing network 
security products to assist ISPs in maintaining the security of their network 

backbone. Because of their activity with ISPs, they are positioned to mea-

sure a significant amount of denial-of-service traffic. In an analysis covering 

the year 2009, they counted over 350,000 denial-of-service attacks, which 
translates to one attack every 90 seconds, of which over 20,000 exceeded 

1 Gbps (gigabits per second), a measure of the volume of traffic being 

directed at the attacked target. Many organizations’ Internet connection 

links handle at most 1 Gbps, so an attack of more than 1 Gbps overwhelms 

not just the website but the target’s entire organization and starts to back 

up, overwhelming the ISP’s network infrastructure. For comparison, current 

residential DSL service reaches a peak of about 3 megabits (1/1000 of a 

gigabit) per second, and cable modems for residential customers are usu-

ally no faster than 30 Mbps. In 2010 [ARB10], Arbor Networks found at 

least one attack that hit 100 Gbps.Arbor Networks observed that attacks greater than 1 Gbps also tend 
to be of long duration. They found that almost 4,000 attacks of more than 

1 Gbps lasted for more than 8 hours, and approximately 3,500 of those 

more than 4 Gbps and 2,000 of those more than 10 Gbps went on that long.
