704 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethics• Protecting programmers’ and employers’ rights. 
The law protects both program-
mers and people who employ programmers. Generally, programmers have only 

limited legal rights to access programs they have written while employed. This 

section contains a survey of the rights of employees and employers regarding 

programs written for pay.
• Protecting users of programs
. When you buy a program, you expect it to work 
properly. If it doesn’t, you want the legal system to protect your rights as a 

consumer. This section surveys the legal recourse you have to address faulty 

programs.Computer law is complex and emerging rather rapidly as it tries to keep up with the 
rapid technological advances in and enabled by computing. We present the fundamen-

tals in this book not in full detail as you would expect by someone with a law degree, 

but as a situational analysis to heighten the awareness of those who are not lawyers but 

who must deal with the law’s implications. To apply the material of this section to any 

specific case, you should consult a lawyer who understands and specializes in computer 

law. And, as most lawyers will advise, ensuring legal protection by doing things cor-

rectly from the beginning is far easier—and cheaper—than hiring a lawyer to sort out a 

web of conflict after things have gone wrong.
11.1 PROTECTING PROGRAMS AND DATA
Suppose Martha wrote a computer program to play a video game. She invited some 

friends over to play the game and gave them copies so that they could play at home. 

Steve took a copy and rewrote parts of Martha’s program to improve the quality of 

the screen display. After Steve shared the changes with her, Martha incorporated them 

into her program. Now Martha’s friends have convinced her that the program is good 

enough to sell, so she wants to advertise and offer the game for sale by mail. She wants 

to know what legal protection she can apply to protect her software. 
Copyrights, patents, and trade secrets are legal devices that can protect computers, 
programs, and data. However, in some cases, precise steps must be taken to protect the 

work before anyone else is allowed access to it. In this section, we explain how each of 

these forms of protection was originally designed to be used and how each is currently 

used in computing. We focus primarily on U.S. law, to provide examples of intent and 

consequence. Readers from other countries or doing business in other countries should 

consult lawyers in those countries to determine the specific differences and similarities.
CopyrightsIn the United States, the basis of copyright protection is presented in the U.S. Consti-

tution. The body of legislation supporting constitutional provisions contains laws that 

elaborate on or expand the constitutional protections. Relevant statutes include the U.S. 

copyright law of 1978, which was updated in 1998 as the Digital Millennium Copyright 

Act (DMCA) specifically to deal with computers and other electronic media such as 

digital video and music. The 1998 changes brought U.S. copyright law into general 
