 Section 6.6  Cryptography in Network Security 
439  for transport layer security
. TLS 1.0, which is sometimes also known as SSL 3.1, is 
documented in Internet RFC 2246; two newer versions are named TLS 1.1 (RFC 4346, 

2006) and TLS 1.2 (RFC 5246, 2008). The acronym SSL is often used to represent both 

the SSL and TLS protocol suites. 
In the OSI network model, applications run at the highest (farthest from electrical 
signals) level, called level 7, and SSL is implemented at level 4, above network address-

ing (level 3) and physical media (level 1). SSL operates between applications (such as 

browsers) and the TCP/IP protocols 

to provide server authentication, 

optional client authentication, and 

an encrypted communication chan-

nel between client and server. 
Cipher Suite Client and server negotiate encryption algorithms, called the 
cipher suite, for authen-tication, session encryption, and hashing. To allow for expansion and deprecation of 

algorithms over time, the first to open an interaction, often the client, states its preferred 

algorithms, and the second party responds with the highest one on that list it can handle. 
The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) globally coordinates the DNS Root, 

IP addressing, and other Internet protocol resources, including cipher suites; we show 

some of the choices in Table 6-4. When client and server begin an SSL session, the 

server sends a set of records listing the cipher suite identifiers it can use; the client 

responds with its preferred selection from that set. As you can see in the table, SSL sup-

ports use of popular cryptographic algorithms we have described in depth, such as RSA, 

triple DES, and AES; IANA also sanctions use of algorithms such as Camellia and Aria 

that are more commonly used in certain countries. (Camellia and Aria are block ciphers 

similar to DES and AES; Camellia was devised by Mitsubishi and NTT in 2000, and 

Aria was developed by Korean cryptographers in 2003. Elliptic Curve Cryptosystems 

are a form of public key cryptography; we describe them in more detail in Chapter 12.)
The SSL protocol is simple but effective, and it is the most widely used secure com-
munication protocol on the Internet. (Note, however, there is a flaw in the MD5 algo-

rithm by which researchers were able to forge a seemingly valid certificate for use with 

SSL. There is also a plaintext injection attack against TLS 1.2, described as CVE-2009-

3555. The flaw involves a fix on the server side, so many web application services will 

need to be corrected.)SSL Session Because SSL is commonly used with web pages, it is often referred to as HTTPS (HTTP 

Secure), and you will see the https: prefix in the address bar of a browser, as well as a 

closed padlock in the corner whenever SSL is in operation. To use SSL, the client requests 

an SSL session. The server responds with its public key certificate so that the client 

can determine the authenticity of the server. The client returns a symmetric session key 

encrypted under the server’s public key. Both the server and client compute the session 

key, and then they switch to encrypted communication, using the shared session key.
After an SSL session has been established, the details of the session can be viewed. 
For example, Figure 6-41 shows an SSL connection established to https:login.yahoo.com. 
SSL encryption covers communication 
between a browser and the remote 

web host.