648 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentsactivities in the background, without users having to be conscious of protection needs 
and practices.But beginning as far back as the 1980s, the introduction of personal computers and 
the general ubiquity of computing have changed the way many of us work and interact 

with computers. In particular, a significant amount of the responsibility for security has 

shifted to the user and away from the computing center. Alas, many users are unaware 

of (or choose to ignore) this responsibility, so they do not deal with the risks posed or do 

not implement simple measures to prevent or mitigate problems.
You have probably seen many common examples of this neglect in news stories. 
Moreover, neglect is exacerbated by the seemingly hidden nature of important data: 

Things we would protect if they were on paper we ignore when they are stored elec-

tronically. For example, a person who carefully locks up paper copies of company con-

fidential records overnight may leave running a personal computer on an assistant’s or 

manager’s desk. We access sensitive data from laptops, smartphones, and tablets, which 

we leave on tables and chairs in restaurants, airports, and bars or coffee shops. In this 

situation, a curious or malicious person walking past can retrieve confidential memo-

randa and data. Similarly, the data on laptops and workstations are often more easily 

available than on older, more isolated systems. For instance, the large and cumbersome 

disk packs and tapes from years ago have been replaced by media such as diskettes, 

CDs, DVDs, flash drives, and solid-state disks, which hold a huge volume of data but 

fit easily in a pocket or briefcase. Moreover, we all recognize that a single CD or DVD 

may contain many times more data than a printed report. But since the report is an 

apparent, visible exposure and the disk is not, we leave the computer media in plain 

view, easy to borrow or steal.
In all cases, whether the user initiates some computing action or simply interacts 
with an active application, every application has confidentiality, integrity, and avail-

ability requirements that relate to the data, programs, and computing machinery. In 

these situations, users suffer from lack of sensitivity: They often do not appreciate the 

security risks associated with using computers.For these reasons, every organization using computers to create and store valuable 
assets should perform thorough and effective security planning. A 
security plan
 is a 
document that describes how an 

organization will address its security 

needs. The plan is subject to peri-

odic review and revision as the orga-

nization’s security needs change.
Organizations and Security PlansConsider a simple example: You have several things you need to do in the next few 

days. You can keep them in your head or write them down on paper or an electronic 

device. In your head, it is easy to forget some or to focus on a less important activity. 

Writing matters down encourages you to think for a moment of other things you need 

to do. And a recorded list to which you can refer gives you a structure to remind you of 
Enterprise security starts with a security 
plan that describes how an organization 
will address its security needs.
