850 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
of NATO’s foundation agreement, which states that “an armed attack against one or 
more of [the member states] shall be considered an attack against them all.”
Does Release of Defensive Information Help the Attackers?Even when information sharing is enabled, how can it be shared without assisting the 

attackers? We have seen examples where attackers learn by observing the nature of 

system changes as the system is repeatedly attacked. How can information be shared 

without aiding attackers?
Is Cyber Warfare Only a Military Problem?
McGraw and Arce [MCG10] argue that cyber security is “a complex network of inter-

twined economic, cultural, diplomatic, and social issues.” Moreover, the geographical 

boundaries influencing other types of warfare do not exist in cyberspace, and the sup-

pliers of the cyber infrastructure are a vivid, multinational mixture of cultures and per-

spectives. National war doctrines and political debates do not fit well on the unbounded 

Internet, where the rules of a single country or alliance are impossible to enforce. Given 

these difficulties, how can we balance the military’s perspective with these other per-

spectives? Indeed, with much of the cyber infrastructure in private hands, what is the 

role of the military at all?13.5 CONCLUSION
In this chapter we examine four topics that are the subject of current attention and will 

likely be the topic of research and development in the computer security community. 

However, the discussion needs to move beyond computer security students and profes-

sionals and beyond even technologists. The issues here are both technological and per-

sonal. How do we decide whether a technology is secure enough for widespread use? 

And who makes those decisions? These questions do not have easy answers in technol-

ogy; they come only from the political arena.
Thus, the situations raised in this chapter are actually challenges to you as readers, students, professionals, and scientists and engineers. You need to work to communicate 

the technical aspects of these issues so people outside your peer group can understand 
them. At the same time, you need to energize the public to engage in these discussions. 

As you understand from reading this book, we all suffer when security fails. Security 

can succeed only when the broader public understands and supports it.