628 Chapter 9  
Privacybut only by the server that set the cookie. Thus, the cookie reveals your actions only 
while at one site. Cookies are passive tracking objects, acting as little notes that show 

where you have been or what you have done. The only information they can gather is 

what you give them by entering data or selecting an object on a web page. Because 

cookies are stored on your machine, you can delete cookies at will to reduce the amount 

of data returned to a web host on a subsequent visit.By contrast, a web bug can invoke a process that can derive from any location, and 
any bug can invoke more bugs and hence more code. A typical advertising web page 

might have 20 web bugs, inviting 20 other sites to drop images, scripts, or other web 

bugs onto the user’s machine. As we explain in Chapter 4, executable code can perform 

any action the invoking user permits, such as perusing data and sending interesting 

items offsite. All this activity occurs without your direct knowledge or control.
Unfortunately, extermination is not so simple as prohibiting images smaller than the 
eye can see, because many web pages use such images innocently to help align content. 

Or some specialized visual applications may actually use collections of minute images 
for a valid purpose. The answer is not to restrict the image but to restrict the action the 

bug can invoke. However, restricting web bugs also restricts the richness of content 

display (think of moving images, music, a slideshow, even dynamic drop-down menus). 

Websites, and especially advertisers, are unwilling to give up this capability, so web bug 

actions are not likely to be significantly restricted.
As we see in the next section, spyware is far more powerful than either bugs or  
cookies—and potentially more dangerous.Spyware
Cookies are passive files and the data they can capture is limited. They cannot, for exam-

ple, read a computer’s registry, peruse an email outbox, or capture the file directory struc-

ture. Spyware is active code that can do all these things that cookies cannot. Generally, 

spyware can do anything a program can do, because that is what they are: programs.
Spyware is code designed to spy on a user, collecting data (including anything the 
user types). In this section we describe different types of spyware.
Keystroke Loggers and Spyware
In Chapter 4 we described keystroke loggers, programs that reside in a computer and 
record every key pressed. Sophisticated loggers discriminate, recording only websites 

visited or, even more serious, only the keystrokes entered at a particular website (for 

example, the login ID and password to a banking site).
A keystroke logger is the computer equivalent of a telephone wiretap. It is a program 
that records every key typed. As you can imagine, keystroke loggers can seriously com-

promise privacy by obtaining passwords, bank account numbers, contact names, and 

web-search arguments.
Spyware
 is the more general term that includes keystroke loggers and also programs 
that surreptitiously record user activity and system data, although not necessarily at the 

level of each individual keystroke. The Center for Democracy and Technology [CDT09] 

has investigated spyware’s threats to privacy. CDT points out that, “The term ‘spyware’ 
