 Section 6.9  Network Management 
491  customers—whose address blocks the provider should know and be able to verify—and 
traffic from outsiders. Having reliable source addresses would limit certain denial-of-

service attacks, but the Internet protocol design does not include mechanisms to support 

address authenticity.
ShunningWith reliable source addresses, network administrators can set edge routers to drop 
packets engaging in a denial-of-service attack. This practice, called 
shunning, essen-tially filters out all traffic from implicated addresses. Real-time monitoring that detects 

an attack determines the addresses from which the attack is coming and acts quickly to 
block those addresses. A firewall can implement shunning of a particular address
Shunning has a downside, however. If an attacker can detect that a site implements 
shunning, the attacker can send attack traffic spoofed to appear to be from a legiti-

mate source. That is, the attacker might make it appear as if the attack is originating at 

google.com or facebook.com, for example; shunning that apparent attack has the nega-

tive outcome of denying legitimate traffic from Google or Facebook.
Blacklisting and SinkholingIn extreme cases, the network administrator may decide to effectively disconnect the 
targeted system. The administrator can 
blacklist the target address, meaning that no 
traffic goes to that address, from 

legitimate or malicious sources 

alike. Alternatively, the administra-

tor may redirect traffic to a valid 

address where the incoming traf-

fic can be analyzed; this process is 

called sinkholing.Both of these countermeasures can be applied at the network edge, before the over-
load volume of traffic is allowed to overwhelm an internal subnetwork. Otherwise, the 

excessive traffic could overwhelm all of an internal subnetwork, thereby denying or 

degrading service to all hosts on the subnetwork, not just the one host that was the target 

of the attack.All these administrative measures carry potential risks. Network monitoring affects 
network performance because intercepting, analyzing, and forwarding traffic takes time 

and therefore imposes a delay. In normal operation the delay is minor, but at the moment 

of an attack, this delay, which affects good as well as malicious traffic, further slows 

an already stressed system. Furthermore, good management requires detailed analysis, 
to see, for example, not only that the traffic is a SYN packet but that the SYN packet 

came from address a.b.c.d, which is the same address from which 250 SYN packets 

have recently originated. Recognizing a SYN packet can be done instantly; recognizing 

address a.b.c.d as involved in 250 previous attacks requires analysis of retained histori-

cal data. More precise inspection produces more useful information but also takes more 

time for the inspection.Shunning and sinkholing are extreme 

network countermeasures blocking all 

traffic from or to a specific address.
