546 Chapter 7  
DatabasesSecure Data Storage In the Hadoop model, data items are replicated and stored in any convenient location. If 

one data store becomes so full that performance suffers, controllers automatically split 

the data and move some elsewhere. The application developer generally does not know, 

much less care, where the data are physically stored.Data-storage providers seek the lowest cost, and hosting data in the center of New 
York City, London, or Tokyo is likely to be far more costly than Alcoa, Tennessee, or 

Pateley Bridge, England. With adequate power and network infrastructure, any place is 

as good as any other.
Almost. Suppose data are stored in a politically sensitive region, even a war zone: A 
mortar attack or fallout from a missile strike is not desirable. Or suppose the data are 

housed in a country whose ruler decides to nationalize all foreign-held assets. Or con-

sider a locale where hungry citizens storm an installation to steal anything they can later 

resell as scrap in order to buy food. In other chapters we have described access control 

in terms of magnetic cards and fingerprint readers for polite persons, but access control 

on a global basis must address physical and political issues, as well.Transaction Logs and Auditing 
Activity logs are important for monitoring who did what. Review of audit logs can 

help an administrator regulate access permissions, and logs also help determine the 

extent of damage if an error or security breach occurs. Determining what to track is 

challenging, however: Too little tracking can limit the usefulness of the access logs, but 

too much data can overwhelm humans and technology, making it difficult to find the 

proverbial needle in a haystack of accesses. Data granularity affects volume of tracking 

data. It may be useless to know that user A accessed database D on Monday, when what 

would really help is to know that A 

modified records 2 and 17, or even 

that A changed the address field in 

2, and the salary field of 17. The 

tracking data available depend on 

the granularity of access recorded 

for the data.In big data applications the unit of access is often the file, so a log would record only 
that an application accessed file F, not the specific data within F.
Real-time Security Monitoring As described in Chapter 6, intrusion detection, and protection systems allow admin-

istrators to monitor activity, perhaps detect anomalous behavior or attacks, and apply 

countermeasures while an incident is underway. Big data architectures involve nimble 

movement of data and computation, but the connecting network may be a large shared 

network, often the Internet. Real-time security monitoring is not intended for complex, 

shared, fluid network architectures.
Tracking access is expensive, especially 

if accesses are numerous; detailed access 

auditing is uncommon for big data.