324 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsThis problem is difficult to solve at the application level, but at the operating sys-
tem level it is a little easier to solve. A 
trusted path is an unforgeable connection by 
which the user can be confident of communicating directly with the operating system, 

not with any fraudulent intermediate application. In the early days of Microsoft Win-

dows, the user had to press the control, alt, and delete keys simultaneously to activate 

the login prompt. The keyboard device driver trapped that one sequence and imme-

diately transferred control to the 

operating system’s authentication 

routine. Thus, even if an applica-

tion could forge a convincing-look-

ing login screen, the user knew the 

only safe way to log in was to press 

control–alt–delete.Trusted systems required a trusted path for all security-critical authentication opera-
tions, such as changing a password. The Orange Book [DOD85] requires “a trusted 

communication path between itself and user for initial login and authentication. Com-

munications via this path shall be initiated exclusively by a user.” Sidebar 5-5 describes 

a physical case in which the lack of a trusted path compromised security.
A trusted path precludes interference 

between a user and the security 
enforcement mechanisms of the 

operating system.SIDEBAR 5-5 Milking the Skimmer
Journalist Brian Krebs has a series of reports on ATM skimmers. (See http://
krebsonsecurity.com/2011/01/atm-skimmers-up-close/ and follow the links 

for other postings; note especially how authentic the devices look in the 

pictures.) A 
skimmer is a device that fits over the slot on an ATM machine 
into which you insert the bank card. The skimmer reads the information 

encoded on the bank card’s magnetic stripe and, in some models, a tiny 

camera photographs your hand as you enter your PIN. The criminal then 

downloads the data captured, and with the encoded information it has cap-

tured, the criminal fabricates a duplicate bank card. Using your PIN, the 

criminal can then impersonate you to access your account.ATM card fraud is prevalent in the United States, but few consum-
ers are concerned because currently most banks reimburse the losses to 

individuals’ accounts. In Europe, however, banks take a harsher stance, 

making customers responsible for some losses. According to the European 

ATM Security Team, ATM crime rose 24 percent for the six-month period 

January–June 2010 as compared to the same period of 2009; there were 

5,743 attacks in the 2010 period with losses of €144 million (almost $200 million). By contrast, the U.S. Secret Service estimates ATM fraud is approx-

imately $1 billion in the United States.Three researchers with Cambridge University [DRI08] found a sim-
ilar problem with skimmers added to handheld terminals widely used in 

Europe to validate customers’ credit cards. The customer passes a card 

to a clerk, who inserts it into a machine with a numeric keypad and passes 

the machine for the customer to enter a secret PIN. Although the customer 

is performing an authentication function, the researchers found they could 
