66 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Other familiar examples of tokens are badges and identity cards. You may have an 
“affinity card”: a card with a code that gets you a discount at a store. Many students and 

employees have identity badges that permit them access to buildings. You must have an 

identity card or passport to board an airplane or enter a foreign country. In these cases 

you possess an object that other people recognize to allow you access or privileges. 
Another kind of authentication token has data to communicate invisibly. Examples 
of this kind of token include credit cards with a magnetic stripe, credit cards with an 

embedded computer chip, or access cards with passive or active wireless technology. 

You introduce the token into an appropriate reader, and the reader senses values from 

the card. If your identity and values from your token match, this correspondence adds 

confidence that you are who you say you are.
We describe different kinds of tokens next.
Active and Passive Tokens
As the names imply, 
passive tokens
 do nothing, and active ones take some action. A 
photo or key is an example of a passive token in that the contents of the token never 

change. (And, of course, with photos permanence can be a problem, as people change 
hair style or color and their faces change over time.)
An active token
 can have some variability or interaction with its surroundings. For 
example, some public transportation systems use cards with a magnetic strip. When 

you insert the card into a reader, the machine reads the current balance, subtracts the 

price of the trip and rewrites a new balance for the next use. In this case, the token is 

just a repository to hold the current value. Another form of active token initiates a two-

way communication with its reader, 

often by wireless or radio signaling. 
These tokens lead to the next dis-

tinction among tokens, static and 

dynamic interaction.Static and Dynamic Tokens
The value of a 
static token
 remains fixed. Keys, identity cards, passports, credit and 
other magnetic-stripe cards, and radio transmitter cards (called RFID devices) are 

examples of static tokens. Static tokens are most useful for onsite authentication: When 

a guard looks at your picture badge, the fact that you possess such a badge and that your 

face looks (at least vaguely) like the picture 
causes the guard to pass your authentication 
and allow you access.
We are also interested in remote authentication, that is, in your being able to prove 
your identity to a person or computer somewhere else. With the example of the picture 

badge, it may not be easy to transmit the image of the badge and the appearance of 

your face for a remote computer to compare. Worse, distance increases the possibility 

of forgery: A local guard could tell if you were wearing a mask, but a guard might not 

detect it from a remote image. Remote authentication is susceptible to the problem of 
the token having been forged. 
Passive tokens do not change. Active 
tokens communicate with a sensor.
