 Section 11.1  Protecting Programs and Data 
709  Copyright InfringementThe holder of the copyright must go to court to prove that someone has infringed on the 
copyright. The infringement must be substantial, and it must be copying, not indepen-

dent work. In theory, two people might write identically the same song independently, 

neither knowing the other. These two people would 
both be entitled to copyright protec-
tion for their work. Neither would have infringed on the other, and both would have the 

right to distribute their work for a fee. Again, copyright is most easily understood for 

written works of fiction because it is extremely unlikely that two people would express 

an idea with the same or highly similar wording.
The independence of nonfiction works is not nearly so clear. Consider, for example, 
an arithmetic book. Long division can be explained in only so many ways, so two inde-

pendent books could use similar wording for that explanation. The number of possible 

alternative examples is limited, so that two authors might independently choose to write 

the same simple example. However, it is far less likely that two textbook authors would 

have the same pattern of presentation and all the same examples from beginning to end.
Copyrights for Computer Software
The original copyright law envisioned protection for things such as books, songs, and 
photographs. People can rather easily detect when these items are copied. The separation 

between public domain and creativity is fairly clear. And the distinction between an idea 

(feeling, emotion) and its expression is pretty obvious. Works of nonfiction understand-

ably have less leeway for independent expression. Because of programming language 

constraints and speed and size efficiency, computer programs have less leeway still.
Can a computer program be copyrighted? Yes. The 1976 copyright law was amended 
in 1980 to include an explicit definition of computer software. However, copyright pro-

tection may not be an especially desirable form of protection for computer works. To 

see why, consider the algorithm used in a given program. The algorithm is the idea, and 

the statements of the programming language are the expression of the idea. Therefore, 

protection is allowed for the program statements themselves, but not for the algorithmic 

concept: copying the code intact is prohibited, but reimplementing the algorithm is per-

mitted. Remember that one purpose 
of copyright is to promote the dis-

semination of ideas The algorithm, 

which is the idea embodied in the 

computer program, is to be shared.A second problem with copyright protection for computer works is the requirement 
that the work be published. A program may be published by distribution of copies of 

its object code, for example, on a disk. However, if the source code is not distributed, it 

has not been published. An alleged infringer cannot have violated a copyright on source 

code if the source code was never published.
Copyrights for Digital ObjectsThe Digital Millennium Copyright Act 
(DMCA) of 1998 clarified some issues of 
digital objects (such as music files, graphics images, data in a database, and also com-

puter programs), but it left others unclear.
The idea embodied in a copyrighted 
work must be made public.