 Section 1.5  Controls 
29  Of course, more than one of these controls can be used simultaneously. So, for exam-
ple, we might try to prevent intrusions—but if we suspect we cannot prevent all of 

them, we might also install a detec-

tion device to warn of an imminent 

attack. And we should have in place 

incident-response procedures to 

help in the recovery in case an intru-

sion does succeed.To consider the controls or countermeasures that attempt to prevent exploiting a 
computing system’s vulnerabilities, we begin by thinking about traditional ways to 

enhance physical security. In the Middle Ages, castles and fortresses were built to pro-

tect the people and valuable property inside. The fortress might have had one or more 

security characteristics, including• a strong gate or door to repel invaders
• heavy walls to withstand objects thrown or projected against them

• a surrounding moat to control access

• arrow slits to let archers shoot at approaching enemies

• crenellations to allow inhabitants to lean out from the roof and pour hot or vile 
liquids on attackers
• a drawbridge to limit access to authorized people

• a portcullis to limit access beyond the drawbridge

• gatekeepers to verify that only authorized people and goods could enter
Similarly, today we use a multipronged approach to protect our homes and offices. 
We may combine strong locks on the doors with a burglar alarm, reinforced windows, 

and even a nosy neighbor to keep an eye on our valuables. In each case, we select one 

or more ways to deter an intruder or attacker, and we base our selection not only on 

the value of what we protect but also on the effort we think an attacker or intruder will 

expend to get inside. 
Computer security has the same characteristics. We have many controls at our dis-
posal. Some are easier than others to use or implement. Some are cheaper than others 
to use or implement. And some are more difficult than others for intruders to override. 

Figure 1-12 illustrates how we use a combination of controls to secure our valuable 

resources. We use one or more controls, according to what we are protecting, how the 

cost of protection compares with the risk of loss, and how hard we think intruders will 

work to get what they want.
In this section, we present an overview of the controls available to us. In the rest of 
this book, we examine how to use controls against specific kinds of threats.
We can group controls into three largely independent classes. The following list 
shows the classes and several examples of each type of control.
• Physical controls 
stop or block an attack by using something tangible too, such aswalls and fences

– locksSecurity professionals balance the cost 

and effectiveness of controls with the 

likelihood and severity of harm.