482 Chapter 6  
NetworksCode Modification CheckersSome security engineers consider other devices to be IDSs as well. For instance, to 
detect unacceptable code modification, programs can compare the active version of 

software code with a saved version of a digest of that code. The Tripwire program 

[KIM98] (described in Chapter 4) is a typical static data comparison program. It can 
detect changes to executable programs and other data files that should never or seldom 

change.Vulnerability Scanners
System vulnerability scanners, such as ISS Scanner or Nessus [AND03], can be run 
against a network. They check for known vulnerabilities and report flaws found.
Intrusion Prevention Systems
Intrusion detection systems work primarily to detect an attack after it has begun, and 

naturally, system or network owners want to prevent the attack before it happens. Think 

of house burglars. You install locks to prevent an intrusion, but those really do not stop a 

truly dedicated burglar who will smash and enter through a window or cut a hole in the 

roof if the motivation is strong enough. As the adage says, where there’s a will, there’s 

a way. A second difficulty is that you never know when the attacker will strike, whether 

the attacker will be alone or in a gang of thousands of people, whether the attacker 

will be a person or an army of trained ants, or whether the brass band marching past 
is part of an attack. You may install a house alarm that senses motion, pressure, body 

heat, or some other characteristic of an attacker, so that regardless of how the attacker 

entered, you or the police are informed of the intrusion, but even an alarm presupposes 

the attacker will be a person, when in fact it might be a robot or drone. Furthermore, 

such alarms are subject to false positives, since a household pet or a balloon moving in 

the breeze can set off the alarm.
Similarly, computer systems are subject to many possible attacks, and preventing all 
of them is virtually impossible. Outguessing the attacker, actually 
all attackers, is also 
virtually impossible. Adding to these difficulties is distinguishing an attack from benign 

but unusual behavior. Detecting the attack gets easier as the attack unfolds, when it 

becomes clearer that the motive is malicious and that harm is either imminent or actu-

ally underway. Thus, as evidence mounts, detection becomes more certain; being able to 

detect bad things before they cause too much harm is the premise upon which intrusion 

detection systems are based.By contrast, an intrusion prevention system
, or IPS, tries to block or stop harm. In fact, it is an intrusion detection system with a built-in response capability. The response 

is not just raising an alarm; the auto-

matic responses include cutting off 

a user’s access, rejecting all traffic 

from address a.b.c.d, or blocking all 

users’ access to a particular file or 
Intrusion prevention systems extend 

IDS technology with built-in protective 

response.
