240 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
on to another bunch. Thus, spammers need a constant source of new accounts, and they 
would like to automate the process of obtaining new ones.
Petmail (http://petmail.lothar.com) is a proposed anti-spam email system. In the 
description the author hypothesizes the following man-in-the-middle attack against 

CAPTCHAs from free email account vendors. First, the spam sender creates a site that 

will attract visitors; the author suggests a site with pornographic photos. Second, the 
spammer requires people to solve a CAPTCHA in order to enter the site and see the 

photos. At the moment a user requests access, the spam originator automatically gener-

ates a request to create a new email account (Hotmail, for example). Hotmail presents a 

CAPTCHA, which the spammer then presents to the pornography requester. When the 

requester enters the solution, the spammer forwards that solution back to Hotmail. If the 

solution succeeds, the spammer has a new account and allows the user to see the photos; 

if the solution fails, the spammer presents a new CAPTCHA challenge to the user. In 

this way, the attacker in the middle splices together two interactions by inserting a small 

amount of the account creation thread into the middle of the photo access thread. The 

user is unaware of the interaction in the middle.
How Browser Attacks Succeed: Failed Identification and Authentication
The central failure of these in-the-middle attacks is faulty authentication. If A cannot 

be assured that the sender of a message is really B, A cannot trust the authenticity of 

anything in the message. In this section we consider authentication in different contexts.
Human AuthenticationAs we first stated in Chapter 2, authentication is based on something you know, are, or 
possess. People use these qualities all the time in developing face-to-face authentica-

tion. Examples of human authentication techniques include a driver’s license or identity 

card, a letter of introduction from a mutual acquaintance or trusted third party, a picture 

(for recognition of a face), a shared secret, or a word. (The original use of “password” 

was a word said to a guard to allow the speaker to pass a checkpoint.) Because we 

humans exercise judgment, we develop a sense for when an authentication is adequate 

and when something just doesn’t seem right. Of course, humans can also be fooled, as 

described in Sidebar 4-2.SIDEBAR 4-2  
Colombian Hostages Freed by Man-in-the-
Middle Trick
Colombian guerrillas captured presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt in 
2002, along with other political prisoners. The guerillas, part of the FARC 

movement, had considered Betancourt and three U.S. contractors to be 

their most valuable prisoners. The captives were liberated in 2008 through 

a scheme involving two infiltrations: one infiltration of the local group that 

held the hostages, and the other of the central FARC command structure.
Having infiltrated the guerillas’ central command organization, Colom-
bian defense officials tricked the local FARC commander, known as Cesar, 
