452 Chapter 6  
Networksduration; they deter fire spread but are not guaranteed or intended to stop a particularly 
intense fire.
As computer security devices, network firewalls are similar, protecting one subnet 
from harm from another subnet. The primary use of a firewall is to protect an internal 

subnetwork from the many threats we have already described in the wild Internet. Fire-

walls can also be used to separate segments of an internal network, for example, to pre-

serve high confidentiality of a sensitive research network within a larger organization.
What Is a Firewall?
Firewalls are one of the most important security devices for networks. Firewalls were 

officially invented in the early 1990s, but the concept really reflects the reference moni-

tor (introduced in Chapter 2) from two decades earlier. The first reference to a firewall 

by that name may be by Marcus Ranum [RAN92]; other early references to firewalls 

are the Trusted Information Systems firewall toolkit [RAN94] and the 1994 book by 

Bill Cheswick and Steve Bellovin [updated as CHE02].
A firewall
 is a device that filters all traffic between a protected or “inside” network 
and a less trustworthy or “outside” network. Usually a firewall runs on a dedicated 

device; because it is a single point through which traffic is channeled, performance is 

important, which means that only firewall functions should run on the firewall machine.
In practice, a firewall is a computer with memory, storage devices, interface cards for 
network access, and other devices. 

It runs an operating system and exe-

cutes application programs. Often 

the hardware, operating system, and 

applications are sold as a package, 

so the firewall application (a pro-

gram) is sometimes also called a 

firewall.
A firewall system typically does not have compilers, linkers, loaders, general text 
editors, debuggers, programming libraries, or other tools an attacker might use to extend 

an attack from the firewall computer. Because a firewall is executable code, an attacker 

could compromise that code and execute from the firewall’s device. For example, Cisco 

runs a proprietary operating system IOS on its switches, routers, and firewalls. In the 

year from July 2013 to June 2014 Cisco released 27 patches to IOS to deal with a range 
of problems from vulnerabilities that could lead to denial of service, to address transla-
tion and routing problems. For a long time proprietary software on network devices 

was scarcely a target for attackers, but even these devices are now catching hackers’ 

attention. The purpose of a firewall is to keep “bad” things outside a protected environment. 
To accomplish that, firewalls implement a security policy that is specifically designed 

to address what bad things might happen. For example, the policy might be to prevent 

any access from outside (while still allowing traffic to pass from the inside to the out-

side). Alternatively, the policy might permit accesses only from certain places, from 

certain users, or for certain activities. Part of the challenge of protecting a network 
A firewall is a computer traffic cop that 

permits or blocks data flow between 
two parts of a network architecture. It is 

the only link between parts.