158 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingBackdoorAn undocumented access point is called a backdoor or 
trapdoor. Such an entry can transfer control to any point with any privileges the programmer wanted.
Few things remain secret on the 
web for long; someone finds an 

opening and exploits it. Thus, cod-

ing a supposedly secret entry point 

is an opening for unannounced 

visitors.Another example of backdoors is used once an outsider has compromised a machine. 
In many cases an intruder who obtains access to a machine wants to return later, either 

to extend the raid on the one machine or to use the machine as a jumping-off point for 

strikes against other machines to which the first machine has access. Sometimes the first 

machine has privileged access to other machines so the intruder can get enhanced rights 

when exploring capabilities on these new machines. To facilitate return, the attacker can 

create a new account on the compromised machine, under a user name and password 

that only the attacker knows.
Protecting Against Unauthorized Entry
Undocumented entry points are a poor programming practice (but they will still be 
used). They should be found during rigorous code reviews in a software development 

process. Unfortunately, two factors work against that ideal.
First, being undocumented, these entry points will not be clearly labeled in source code or any of the development documentation. Thus, code reviewers might fail to rec-

ognize them during review.
Second, such backdoors are often added after ordinary code development, during 
testing or even maintenance, so even the scrutiny of skilled reviewers will not find 

them. Maintenance people who add such code are seldom security engineers, so they 

are not used to thinking of vulnerabilities and failure modes. For example, as reported 
SIDEBAR 3-4 Continuedkeystrokes the user’s screen seemed to follow down a corridor with panels 
on the sides, and on the panels were inscribed the names of the develop-

ers of that version of Excel.Such a piece of code is called an Easter egg
, for chocolate candy 
eggs filled with toys for children. This is not the only product with an Easter 

egg. An old version of Internet Explorer had something similar, and other 

examples can be found with an Internet search. Although most Easter eggs 

do not appear to be harmful, they raise a serious question: If such complex 

functionality can be embedded in commercial software products without 

being stopped by a company’s quality control group, are there other holes, 

potentially with security vulnerabilities?Secret backdoors are eventually found. 
Security cannot depend on such secrecy.
