804 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographybe chosen so that (p − 1) has a large prime factor, 
q. The private key is 
x and the public 
key is 
y, along with parameters p and a.To sign a message 
m, choose a random integer 
k, 0  k  p − 1, which has not been used before and which is relatively prime to (
p − 1), and computer  ak mod pands  k–1 (m  xr) mod (p  1)where k–1 is the multiplicative inverse of 
k mod (
p − 1), so that k  k–1  1 mod (
p − 1). The message signature is then r and 
s. A recipient can use the public key 
y to compute 
yr rs mod p and determine that it is equivalent to 
am mod 
p. To defeat this encryption 
and infer the values of 
x and 
k given 
r, s, and m, the intruder would have to find a means 
of computing a discrete logarithm to solve 
y  ax and r  ak.Digital Signature Algorithm
The U.S. Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) (also called the Digital Signature Standard 
or DSS) [NIS94] is the El Gamal algorithm with a few restrictions. First, the size of 
p is 
specifically fixed at 2
511  p  2512 (so that p is roughly 170 decimal digits long). Sec-ond, q, the large prime factor of (
p − 1) is chosen so that 2159  q  2160. The algorithm 
explicitly uses 
H(m), a hash value, instead of the full message text 
m. Finally, the com-
putations of r and 
s are taken mod 
q. One interpretation is that these changes make the 
algorithm easy to use for people who do not want or need to understand the underlying 

mathematics. However, the changes also weaken the potential strength of the encryption 

by reducing the uncertainty for the attacker.
U.S. Digital Signature Standard
Having devised the digital signature algorithm DSA, the U.S. government instituted a 
standard for use of that algorithm to make digital signatures. However, the government 

was a bit late to the game: Private industry had already converged around a digital sig-

nature approach based on RSA encryption, and a standards committee for the banking 
community had settled upon a third method using ECC. Thus, FIPS Publication 186-3, 

Digital Signature Standard
 [NIS09] covers and approves for government use all three 
methods. A new standard, version 186-4 [NIS13], was published in July 2013. 
The NSA–Cryptography Controversy of 2012
In this chapter we have described strengths and weaknesses of cryptographic techniques. 

In some cases a weakness surfaced years, even decades, after the algorithm was intro-

duced. Cryptologists pore through one another’s work looking for tiny oversights and 

unprotected attack vectors. And largely this scrutiny is good-natured, because someone 

who finds a weakness is also likely to release a new algorithm some time later for analy-

sis by peers. The community seems to enjoy the challenge of the analytic game.
