500 Chapter 6  
Networks43. Do firewall rules have to be symmetric? That is, does a firewall have to block a particular 
traffic type both inbound (to the protected site) and outbound (from the site)? Why or why 

not?44. The FTP protocol is relatively easy to proxy; the firewall decides, for example, whether an 
outsider should be able to access a particular directory in the file system and issues a cor-

responding command to the inside file manager or responds negatively to the outsider. Other 

protocols are not feasible to proxy. List three protocols that it would be prohibitively difficult 

or impossible to proxy. Explain your answer.
45. How would the content of the audit log differ for a screening router versus an application 
proxy firewall?
46. Cite a reason why an organization might want two or more firewalls on a single network.
47. Firewalls are targets for penetrators. Why are there few compromises of firewalls?
48. Should a network administrator put a firewall in front of a honeypot (introduced in Chap-
ter 5)? Why or why not?
49. Can a firewall block attacks that use server scripts, such as the attack in which the user could 
change a price on an item offered by an e-commerce site? Why or why not?
50. Why does a stealth mode IDS need a separate network to communicate alarms and to accept 
management commands?51. One form of IDS starts operation by generating an alert for every action. Over time, the 
administrator adjusts the setting of the IDS so that common, benign activities do not generate 

alarms. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this design for an IDS?
52. Can encrypted email provide verification to a sender that a recipient has read an email mes-
sage? Why or why not?
53. Can message confidentiality and message integrity protection be applied to the same mes-
sage? Why or why not?
54. What are the advantages and disadvantages of an email program (such as Eudora or Outlook) 
that automatically applies and removes protection to email messages between sender and 

receiver?
