824 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
Preparing a Business Case
Mary Ann Davidson [DAV05] describes how Oracle evaluated two different intrusion 
detection systems. The value and accuracy of each system were assessed as contribu-

tions to how well the company could do its job. 
The old system had a ridiculously high number of alarms every week, and an extraor-
dinary amount of them—70 to 80 percent—were false positives [i.e., they indicated a 

problem when in fact nothing was wrong]. We looked at what it was costing us to track 

down the alarms that we really needed to do something about, including the costs for 

people to sort through the alarms and analyze them. The new product had a much lower 

alarm rate as well as a lower false positive rate. The information provided by the new 

product was better, at a lower cost. Economic analysis, specifically return on invest-

ment, helped us choose the new supplier over the old one.
In this example Davidson tries to put a value on the time it takes her staff to investi-
gate alarms. Although there were false alarms, the time invested still represents a cost 

associated with using the old system.In general, businesses need to know whether and how investing one more unit of 
money or time buys them more security. The effects on security depend on various per-

spectives, such as effects on the global economy, the national economy, and corporate 

supply chains. Sidebar 13-1 illustrates how an organization can generate a business case 

for a security technology.
SIDEBAR 13-1  
A Business Case for Web Applications 
SecurityCafésoft, a web access and identity management company, presents 
a business case for web applications security on its corporate website 

[GWI03]. The business case explains the return on investment for an orga-

nization that secures its web applications. The argument has four thrusts:
• Revenue: Increases in revenue can occur because the security 
increases trust in the website or the company.
• Costs: The cost argument is broader than simply the installation, oper-
ation, and maintenance of the security application. It includes cost 

savings (for example, from fewer security breaches), cost avoidance 

(for example, from fewer calls to the help desk), efficiency (for exam-

ple, from the ability to handle more customer requests) and effective-

ness (for example, from the ability to provide more services).
• Compliance: Security practices can derive from the organization, a 
standards body, a regulatory body, best practice, or simply agree-

ment with other organizations. Failure to implement regulatory security 

practices can lead to fines, imprisonment, or bad publicity that can 

affect current and future revenues. Failure to comply with agreed-on 

standards with other organizations or with customers can lead to lost 

business or lost competitive advantage.