 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
357  an error message in the real switch software was not delivered successfully, 
which triggered an alert condition. While investigating the source of the 

alert, Ericsson engineers found the addition.
The lesson from that compromise is that backdoors, even undocu-
mented, can be found and exploited. Security through obscurity is not an 

effective countermeasure.
SIDEBAR 6-4 Distributed Authentication Failures
Authentication must be handled carefully and correctly in a network because 

a network involves authentication not just of people but also of processes, 

servers, and services only loosely associated with a person. And for a net-

work, the authentication process and database are often distributed for 

performance and reliability. Consider the authentication scheme Microsoft 

implemented for its Windows operating systems in 2000. In Windows NT 4.0, 

the first Microsoft system to support large-scale distributed computing, the 

authentication database was distributed among several domain controllers. 

Each domain controller was designated as a primary or backup controller. All 

changes to the authentication database had to be made to the (single) pri-
mary domain controller; the changes were then replicated from the primary to 

the backup domain controllers. This approach meant changes were consis-

tently controlled and implemented at the single point of the primary controller. 

Of course, this single controller also became a single point of failure and a 

potential performance bottleneck for the domain.
In Windows 2000, the concept of primary and backup domain con-
trollers was abandoned. Instead, the network viewed controllers as equal 

trees in a forest, in which any domain controller could update the authenti-

cation database. This scheme reflected Microsoft’s notion that the system 

was “multimaster”: Only one controller could be master at a given time, but 

any controller could be a master. Once changes were made to a master, 

they were automatically replicated to the remaining domain controllers in 

the forest.
This approach was more flexible and robust than the primary–sec-
ondary approach because it allowed any controller to take charge—espe-

cially useful if one or more controllers failed or were out of service for 

some reason. But the multimaster approach introduced a new problem: 

Because any domain controller could initiate changes to the authentication 

database, any hacker able to dominate a single domain controller could 

alter the authentication database. And, what’s worse, the faulty changes 

were then replicated throughout the remaining forest. Theoretically, the 

hacker could access anything in the forest that relied on Windows 2000 for 

authentication.When we think of attackers, we usually think of threats from outside 
the system. But in fact the multimaster approach could tempt people inside 

the system, too. A domain administrator in any domain in the forest could 

access domain controllers within that domain. Thanks to multimaster, the 
(continues)