 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
677  Often in security we cannot directly evaluate an event’s probability by using classical 
techniques. However, we can try to apply frequency probability by using observed data 

for a specific system. Local failure rates are fairly easy to record, and we can identify 

which failures resulted in security breaches or created new vulnerabilities. In particular, 

operating systems can track data on hardware failures, failed login attempts, numbers of 

accesses, and changes in the sizes of data files. 
Another alternative is to estimate the number of occurrences in a given time period. 
We can ask an analyst familiar with the system to approximate the number of times a 

described event occurred in the last year, for example. Although the count is not exact 

(because the analyst is unlikely to have complete information), the analyst’s knowledge 

of the system and its usage may yield reasonable estimates. Of course, the two methods described depend on the fact that a system is already 
built and has been in use for some period of time. In many cases, and especially for 

proposed situations, usage data are not available. In this case, we may ask an analyst 

to estimate likelihood by reviewing a table based on a similar system; this approach is 

incorporated in several formal security risk processes. For example, the analyst may 

be asked to choose one of the ratings shown in Table 10-5. Completing this analy-

sis depends on the rater’s professional expertise. The table provides the rater with a 

framework within which to con-

sider each likelihood. Differences 

between close ratings are not very 

significant. A rater should be able 

to distinguish between something 

that happens once a year and once 

a month.These approaches all lead to what is called quantitative risk analysis
, meaning that numbers can be assigned to various risks. Some people prefer so-called 
qualitative 
risk analysis, in which no numerical probabilities are assigned. Instead, descriptive 
adjectives are used to rate risks, so one risk might be categorized as “highly likely” and 

another “improbable.” Qualitative assessment is more appropriate in situations where 

it is difficult to quantify risk, for example, for the likelihood that a meteor might crash 

into a building. Often, qualitative risks are then assigned a numeric value, for example, 

1 for improbable and 5 for highly likely. These numbers are a simple shorthand nota-

tion, and sometimes they are used in the next step of risk analysis, in which risk likeli-

hoods are used to predict potential loss.so the probability may differ from one person to another. We sometimes use 
the Delphi method (described later in this section) to reconcile these differ-

ences. The big advantage of subjective probability is that it can be used 

in all circumstances. However, it is clearly not objective, and it requires a 

coherent and complete understanding of the situation and its context.
In any given risk analysis we may use two or even all three of these 
estimating techniques. We prefer classical probability, but we use other 

techniques as necessary.
Estimates of value and event likelihood are just estimates; their purpose 

is to locate points of most serious 
vulnerability.
