 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
367  larger network infrastructure, is 
a unique pathway, so any failure 

there isolates the host. But once into 
the network, routers have multiple 

pathways so if one is unavailable 

another can be used. As with the other vulnerabilities we have just discussed, loss of service can be mali-
cious or nonmalicious, intentional or accidental. Unlike confidentiality and integrity 

failures, however, denial of service is not binary: Yes, you do either have service or 

not, but a critical question is how much? Service capacity can be reduced. Is a service 

degradation of 0.1 percent or 1 percent or 10 percent catastrophic? The answer depends 

on the particular network in question, its traffic load, and the criticality of its data. Thus, 

we have to consider not only whether service is or is not present, but also whether the 

amount present is adequate.RoutingAs we have just described, Internet routing protocols are complicated. Routers have to 
trust each other for status updates on accessibility of other parts of the Internet. One 

piece of bad information can poison the data pool of many routers, thus disrupting 

flow for many paths. Although the 

Internet routing protocols are self-
healing, meaning they recover from 

bad data by recalibrating when they 

discover inaccuracies, it does take 

some time for the effects of errors to 

be flushed from the system.Although uncommon and highly sophisticated, attacks against the routing system are 
possible. We describe some relatively simple attacks later in this chapter.
Excessive DemandAlthough Mae West is reported to have said “too much of a good thing can be wonder-
ful,” that sentiment hardly applies to networks. Network capacity is enormous but finite, 

and capacity of any particular link or component is much smaller. Thus, with extreme 

demand an attacker can overwhelm a critical part of a network, from a web page server 

to a router or a communications line.How the swamped component responds varies. Some components shut down com-
pletely, some provide degraded (slower) service to all requests, and others drop some 

activity in an attempt to preserve service for some users.
Malicious denial-of-service 
attacks are usually effected through 

excessive demand. The goal is to 

overload the victim’s capacity or 

reduce the ability to serve other legit-

imate requesters.Network design incorporates 
redundancy to counter hardware 

failures.
Routing supports efficient resource use 

and quality of service. Misused, it can 
cause denial of service.Denial-of-service attacks usually try to 
flood a victim with excessive demand.