 Section 6.1  Network Concepts 
351  from the actual medium of communication. Independence is possible because we have 
defined 
protocols
 that allow a user to view the network at a high, abstract level of com-
munication (viewing it in terms of user and data); the details of 
how the communication 
is accomplished are hidden within software and hardware at both ends. The software 

and hardware enable us to implement a network according to a 
protocol stack
, a lay-ered architecture for communications; we described the OSI protocol model earlier in 
this chapter. Each layer in the stack is much like a language for communicating infor-

mation relevant at that layer.
A protocol is a language or set of conventions for how two computers will interact. A 
simple protocol accomplishes email transfer. Essentially the sender’s computer contacts 

the recipient’s and says “I have email for your user Dmitri.” The receiving computer 

replies to accept the transfer, the sender sends it and then sends a completion notifica-

tion to indicate the end of the transfer. Of course, this overview omits critical details.
Addressing
But how does the sender contact the receiver? Suppose your message is addressed to 
yourfriend@somewhere.net. This notation means that “somewhere.net” is the name of 

a destination host (or more accurately, a destination network). At the network layer, 

a hardware device called a 
router
 actually sends the message from your network to 
a router on the network somewhere.net. The network layer adds two headers to show 

your computer’s address as the source and somewhere.net’s address as the destination. 

Logically, your message is prepared to move from your machine to your router to your 

friend’s router to your friend’s computer. (In fact, between the two routers there may be 

many other routers in a path through the networks from you to your friend.) Together, 

the network layer structure with 

destination address, source address, 
and data is called a packet
. The 
basic network layer protocol trans-

formation is shown in Figure 6-5.
The message must travel from your computer to your router. Every computer con-
nected to a network has a 
network interface card (NIC) 
with a unique physical address, 
called a MAC address
 (for Media Access Control). At the data-link level, two more head-
ers are added, one for your computer’s NIC address (the source MAC) and one for your 

router’s NIC address. A data-link layer structure with destination MAC, source MAC, and 
Packet: Smallest individually addressable 

data unit transmittedFIGURE 6-5 Network Layer Transformation
MessageTransport
LayerNetwork LayerMessageSourceAddressDestinationAddress