 Section 4.4  Email Attacks 
275  phishing email advises the recipient of an error, and the message includes a link to click 
to enter data about an account. The link, of, course, is not genuine; its only purpose is to 

solicit account names, numbers, and authenticators.Protecting Against Email Attacks
Email attacks are getting sophisticated. In the examples shown in this chapter, errors in 

grammar and poor layout would raise a user’s skepticism. But over time the spam artists 

have learned the importance of producing an authentic-looking piece of bait.
SIDEBAR 4-11 Spear Phishing Nets Big Phish
In March 2011 security firm RSA announced the compromise of the secu-
rity of its SecurID authentication tokens (described in Chapter 2). Accord-

ing to a company announcement, an unknown party infiltrated servers and 

obtained company secrets, including “information . . . specifically related to 
RSA’s SecurID two-factor authentication products.” The company revealed 

that two spear phishing emails with subject line “2011 Recruitment Plan” 

were sent to a number of employees. One employee opened the email 

as well as an attached Excel spreadsheet, “2011 Recruitment plan.xls” 

infected with a previously unknown vulnerability. The harmful spreadsheet 

then installed a backdoor that connected the employee’s computer—inside 

the RSA corporate network—to a remote server.
Earlier, according to a report from 
Agence France Presse
 (18 Oct 
2010), South Korean officials were duped into downloading malware that 

sent sensitive defense documents to a foreign destination, believed to 

be Chinese. The officials received email messages appearing to be from 

Korean diplomats, presidential aides, and other officials; the messages 

appeared to have come from the two main Korean portals, but the underly-

ing IP addresses were registered in China.
The email messages contained attachments that were titled as and 
seemed to be important documents, such as plans for a dignitary’s visit 

or an analysis of the North Korean economy. When the recipient clicked 

to open the attachment, that action allowed a virus to infect the recipient’s 

computer, which in turn led to the transfer of the sensitive documents.
Before the G20 summit (meeting of 20 industrialized nations’ diplomats) 
in September 2012, attackers were able to access several diplomats from 

unspecified European nations. Tainted emails with attachments with names 

such as US_military_options_in_Syria were used to entice the recipients to 

open the files that then infected computers. The attackers were able to collect 

data from these computers in advance of and during the summit meeting.
In October 2012 the White House was a victim of a spear phishing 
attack that compromised an unclassified server. And in July 2013 White 

House staffers were again fooled by phishing email, this time designed to 

look like legitimate BBC or CNN news items. When recipients opened the 

email they were redirected to authentic-looking Gmail or Twitter login pages, 

from which the attackers were able to extract the staffers’ login credentials.
