 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
669  We usually want to weigh the pros and cons of different actions we can take to 
address each risk. To that end, we can quantify the effects of a risk by multiplying 

the risk impact by the risk probability, yielding the 
risk exposure
. For example, if the 
likelihood of virus attack is 0.3 and the cost to clean up the affected files is $10,000, 

then the risk exposure is $3,000. So we can use a calculation like this one to decide 

that a virus checker is worth an investment of $100, since it will prevent a much larger 

expected potential loss. Clearly, risk probabilities can change over time, so a risk analy-

sis activity should track them and plan for events accordingly.
Risk is inevitable in life: Crossing the street is risky but that does not keep us from 
doing it. We can identify, limit, avoid, or transfer risk but we can seldom eliminate it. In 

general, we have three strategies for dealing with risk:
• avoid the risk by changing requirements for security or other system 
characteristics• transfer
 the risk by allocating the risk to other systems, people, organizations, or 
assets; or by buying insurance to cover any financial loss should the risk become 

a reality• assume the risk by accepting it, controlling it with available resources and pre-
paring to deal with the loss if it occursThus, costs are associated not only with the risk’s potential impact but also with 
reducing it. Risk leverage
 is the difference in risk exposure divided by the cost of 
reducing the risk. In other words, risk leverage is
(risk exposure before reduction) 
 (risk exposure after reduction)
(cost of risk reduction)The leverage measures value for money spent: A risk reduction of $100 for a cost 
of $10, a 10:1 reduction, is quite 

a favorable result. If the lever-

age value of a proposed action is 

not high enough, then we look for 

alternative but less costly actions or 

more effective reduction techniques.
Risk analysis is the process of examining a system and its operational context to deter-
mine possible exposures and the potential harm they can cause. Thus, the first step in a 

risk analysis is to identify and list all exposures in the computing system of interest. Then, 

for each exposure, we identify possible controls and their costs. The last step is a cost–

benefit analysis: Does it cost less to implement a control or to accept the expected cost 

of the loss? In the remainder of this section, we describe risk analysis, present examples 

of risk analysis methods, and discuss some of the drawbacks to performing risk analysis.
The Nature of Risk
In our everyday lives, we take risks. In riding a bike, eating oysters, or playing the lot-

tery, we take the chance that our actions may result in some negative result—such as 

being injured, getting sick, or losing money. Consciously or unconsciously, we weigh 
Risk leverage is the amount of benefit 
per unit spent.