530 Chapter 7  
DatabasesIt is unlikely that research will reveal a simple, easy-to-apply measure that deter-
mines exactly which data can be revealed without compromising sensitive data.
Nevertheless, an effective control for the inference problem is just knowing that it 
exists. As usual, recognizing a problem leads to understanding the need to control it 

and to be aware of potential difficulties it can cause. However, just knowing of possible 

database attacks does not necessarily mean people will protect against those attacks. It 
is also noteworthy that much of the research on database inference was done in the early 

1980s, but the privacy aspects of inference remain largely unchecked.
Denning and Schlörer [DEN83] surveyed techniques for maintaining security in 
databases. The controls for all statistical attacks are similar. Essentially, there are two 

ways to protect against inference attacks: Either apply controls to the queries or apply 

controls to individual items within the database. As we have seen, it is difficult to deter-

mine whether a given query discloses sensitive data. Thus, query controls are effective 

primarily against direct attacks.Suppression and concealing are 
two controls applied to data items. 

With 
suppression, 
sensitive data 
values are not forthcoming; the 

query is rejected without response. 
With 
concealing, the answer is close 
to but not exactly the actual value.
These two controls reflect the contrast between security and precision. With suppres-
sion, any results given are correct, yet many responses must be withheld to maintain 

security. With concealing, more results can be given, but their precision is lower. The 

choice between suppression and concealing depends on the context of the database.
Security Versus Precision
Our examples have illustrated how difficult it is to determine what data are sensitive and 

how to protect them. The situation is complicated by a desire to share nonsensitive data. 

For reasons of confidentiality
 we want to disclose only those data that are not sensitive. 
Such an outlook encourages a conservative philosophy in determining what data to dis-

close: less is better than more.On the other hand, consider the users of the data. The conservative philosophy sug-
gests rejecting any query that mentions a sensitive field. We may thereby reject many 

reasonable and nondisclosing queries. For example, a researcher may want a list of 

grades for all students using drugs, or a statistician may request lists of salaries for all 
men and for all women. These queries probably do not compromise the identity of any 

individual. We want to disclose as much data as possible so that users of the database 

have access to the data they need. This goal, called 
precision, 
aims to protect all sensi-tive data while revealing as much nonsensitive data as possible.
We can depict the relationship between security and precision with concentric cir-
cles. As Figure 7-4 shows, the sensitive data in the central circle should be carefully 

concealed. The outside band represents data we willingly disclose in response to que-

ries. But we know that the user may put together pieces of disclosed data and infer 
Data suppression blocks release 

of sensitive data; data concealing 
releases part or an approximation of 

sensitive data.