 Section 7.2  Security Requirements of Databases 
511  As we note in Chapter 2, granularity can become an impediment in auditing. Audited 
events in operating systems are actions like 
open file
 or 
call procedure
; they are seldom 
as specific as 
write record
 3 or 
execute instruction
 I. To be useful for maintaining integ-
rity, database audit trails should include accesses at the record, field, and even element 

levels. This detail is prohibitive for most database applications.
Furthermore, the database management system may access a record but not report 
the data to a user, as when the user performs a 
select operation. For example, a residence 
hall advisor might want a count of all students who have failed elementary French, and 

the database management system reports 462. To get that number the system had to 

inspect all student records and note those with failing grades, and it performed this 

lookup on behalf of the advisor who is appropriately listed in the log as receiving the 

data. Thus, in a sense, the advisor accessed all those student grades, although from the 

number 462 the advisor cannot determine the grade of any individual student. (Access-

ing a record or an element without transferring to the user the data received is called the 

pass-through problem
.) Thus, a log of all records accessed directly may both overstate 
and understate what a user actually learns. The problem is even more nuanced than what 

we describe here, and we consider some intricacies of disclosure later in this chapter.
Access Control
Databases are often separated logically by user access privileges. For example, all users 

can be granted access to general data, but only the personnel department can obtain sal-

ary data and only the marketing department can obtain sales data. Databases are useful 

because they centralize the storage and maintenance of data. Limited access is both a 

responsibility and a benefit of this centralization.
The database administrator specifies who should be allowed access to which data, 
at the view, relation, field, record, or even element level. The DBMS must enforce this 

policy, granting access to all specified data or no access where prohibited. Furthermore, 

the number of modes of access can be many. A user or program may have the right to 

read, change, delete, or append to a value, add or delete entire fields or records, or reor-

ganize the entire database.Superficially, access control for a database seems like access control for an operating 
system or any other component of a computing system. However, the database problem 

is more complicated, as we see throughout this chapter. Operating system objects, such 

as files, are unrelated items, whereas records, fields, and elements are related. Although 

a user probably cannot determine the contents of one file by reading others, a user might 

be able to determine one data element just by reading others. The problem of obtain-

ing data values from others is called 
inference
, and we consider it in depth later in this chapter.
It is important to notice that you can access data by inference without needing direct access to the secure object itself. Restricting inference may mean prohibiting certain 

paths to prevent possible inferences. However, restricting access to control inference 

also limits queries from users who do not intend unauthorized access to values. More-

over, attempts to check requested accesses for possible unacceptable inferences may 

actually degrade the DBMS’s performance.
