764 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsEthical InvestigationExperiments involving human beings are closely scrutinized for potential negative 
impact on the subjects. Potential for harm can be obvious in certain experiments (drug 

trials, for example); in other experiments, harm, especially psychological or emotional, 

may be less predictable and also less easy to detect.The researchers claim the experiment was of short duration, and the demonstrated 
effect was minimal.
Is there a potential for harm to an individual involved in this study? If yes, what 
kind? In some cases one can argue the risk of harm to an individual is outweighed by 

some other gain. Does such a condition hold in this case?Conclusion of Computer EthicsIn this study of ethics, we have tried not to decide right and wrong, or even to brand cer-

tain acts as ethical or unethical. (You may have thought we were pressing a viewpoint 

when we followed a path in an extension to a case. On the contrary, we wanted you to 

think through the implications of how the situation could grow, as a way to sharpen your 

analytic skills and test your analysis.) The purpose of this section is to stimulate think-

ing about ethical issues concerned with confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data 

and computations.The cases presented show complex, conflicting ethical situations. The important first 
step in acting ethically in a situation is to obtain the facts, ask about any uncertainties, 

and acquire any additional information needed. In other words, first we must understand 

the situation.The second step is to identify the ethical principles involved. Honesty, fair play, 
proper compensation, and respect for privacy are all ethical principles. Sometimes these 

conflict, and then we must determine which principles are more important than others. 
This analysis may not lead to one principle that obviously overshadows all others. Still, 

a ranking to identify the major principles involved is needed.
The third step is choosing an action that meets these ethical principles. Making a 
decision and taking action are difficult, especially if the action has evident negative con-

sequences. However, taking action based on a 
personal
 ranking of principles is neces-
sary. The fact that other equally sensible people may choose a different action does not 

excuse us from taking some action. 
This section is not trying to force the development of rigid, inflexible principles. 
Decisions may vary, based on fine differences between two situations. Or a person’s 

views can change over time in response to experience and changing context. Learning 

to reason about ethical situations is not quite the same as learning “right” from “wrong.” 

Terms such as 
right and 
wrong
 or 
good and 
bad imply a universal set of values. Yet 
we know that even widely accepted principles are overridden by some people in some 

situations. For example, the principle of not killing people may be violated in the case 

of war or capital punishment. Few, if any, values are held by everyone or in all cases. 

Therefore, our purpose in introducing this material has been to stimulate you to recog-
nize and think about ethical principles involved in cases related to computer security. 
