 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
103  Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman), this algorithm was introduced in 1978 [RIV78]. 
Cryptanalysts have subjected RSA to extensive cryptanalysis, but they have found no 

serious flaws.
The two keys used in RSA, 
d and 
e, are used for decryption and encryption. They are 
actually interchangeable: Either can be chosen as the public key, but one having been 

chosen, the other one must be kept private. For simplicity, we call the encryption key 
e and the decryption key 
d. We denote plaintext as 
P and its corresponding ciphertext as 
C. C  RSA(
P,e
). Also, because of the nature of the RSA algorithm, the keys can be 
applied in either order:P  E(D(P))  D(E(P))orP  RSA(RSA(P,e
), d)  RSA(RSA(P,d
), e)(You can think of 
E and 
D as two complementary functions, each of which can “undo” 
the other’s effect.) 
RSA does have the unfortunate property that the keys are long: 256 bits is considered 
the minimum usable length, but in most contexts experts prefer keys on the order of 

1000 to 2000 bits. Encryption in RSA is done by exponentiation, raising each plaintext 

block to a power; that power is the key 
e. In contrast to fast substitution and transposi-
tion of symmetric algorithms, exponentiation is extremely time-consuming on a com-

puter. Even worse, the time to encrypt increases exponentially as the exponent (key) 

grows longer. Thus, RSA is markedly slower than DES and AES.
The encryption algorithm is based on the underlying problem of factoring large num-
bers in a finite set called a field. So far, nobody has found a shortcut or easy way to 

factor large numbers in a field. In a highly technical but excellent paper, Dan Boneh 

[BON99] reviews all the known cryptanalytic attacks on RSA and concludes that none 

is significant. Because the factorization problem has been open for many decades, most 

cryptographers consider this problem a solid basis for a secure cryptosystem.To summarize, the two symmetric algorithms DES and AES provide solid encryption 
of blocks of 64 to 256 bits of data. The asymmetric algorithm RSA encrypts blocks of 

various sizes. DES and AES are substantially faster than RSA, by a factor of 10,000 or 

more, and their rather simple primitive operations have been built into some computer 

chips, making their encryption even more efficient than RSA. Therefore, people tend to 

use DES and AES as the major cryptographic workhorses, and reserve slower RSA for 

limited uses at which it excels.
The characteristics of secret key (symmetric) and public key (asymmetric) algo-
rithms are compared in Table 2-13.
Public Key Cryptography to Exchange Secret Keys
Encryption algorithms alone are not the answer to everyone’s encryption needs. 

Although encryption implements protected communications channels, it can also be 

used for other duties. In fact, combining symmetric and asymmetric encryption often 

capitalizes on the best features of each.