 Section 2.1  Authentication 
59  authentication, a current set of measurements is taken and compared to the template. The 
current sample need not exactly match the template, however. Authentication succeeds 

if the match is “close enough,” meaning it is within a predefined tolerance, for example, 

if 90 percent of the values match or if each parameter is within 5 percent of its expected 

value. Measuring, comparing, and assessing closeness for the match takes time, cer-

tainly longer than the “exact match 

or not” comparison for passwords. 

(Consider the result described in 

Sidebar 2-8.) Therefore, the speed 

and accuracy of biometrics is a fac-

tor in determining their suitability 

for a particular environment of use.
Remember that identification is stating an identity, whereas authentication is con-
firming the identity, as depicted in Figure 2-5. Biometrics are reliable for authentication 

but are much less reliable for identification. The reason is mathematical. All biometric 

readers operate in two phases. First, a user registers with the reader, during which time 

a characteristic of the user (for example, the geometry of the hand) is captured and 

reduced to a set of data points. During registration, the user may be asked to present 

the hand several times so that the registration software can adjust for variations, such 

as how the hand is positioned. Registration produces a pattern, called a 
template, of SIDEBAR 2-7 Biometric Forgeries
The most famous fake was an artificial fingerprint produced by researchers 
in Japan using cheap and readily available gelatin. The researchers used 

molds made by pressing live fingers against them or by processing finger-

print images from prints on glass surfaces. The resulting “gummy fingers” 

were frequently accepted by 11 particular fingerprint devices with optical 

or capacitive sensors. [MAT02]
According to another story from BBC news (13 Mar 2013) a doctor 
in Brazil was caught with sixteen fingers: ten authentic and six made of 

silicone that she used to log in to the hospital’s time-card system on behalf 

of fellow doctors.In a study published in 2014 [BOW14], researchers looked at whether 
contact lenses can be used to fool authentication devices that look at the 
pattern of the iris (the colored ring of the eye). The goal of the research was 

to determine whether iris recognition systems reliably detect true positives; 

that is, whether a subject will be reliably authenticated by the system. The 

researchers demonstrated that tinted contact lenses can fool the system 

into denying a match when one really exists. A subject might apply con-

tact lenses in order to not be noticed as a wanted criminal, for example. 

Although difficult and uncommon, forgery will be an issue whenever the 

reward for a false result is high enough.
Biometric matches are not exact; 
the issue is whether the rate of 
false positives and false negatives is 
acceptable.