374 Chapter 6  
Networksopenings they report are available with or without port scans. Should they be prohibited in 
some way? It is probably too late for that action, especially because any competent pro-

grammer with a rudimentary knowledge of network protocols could easily write a basic 

one. Thus, at best we can say the port scanning technique exists, and network admin-

istrators should use port scanners 

themselves to determine how much 

outsiders can learn of their network. 

By themselves port scanners do not 

cause denial of service or any other 

network failure, but they do facilitate 

and often precipitate it.Vulnerability Summary
As the examples just presented show, numerous attacks against the infrastructure 

of wide area networks can lead to interception, modification, and denial of service. 

Because these attacks work against the large network, they are seldom used against one 

specific user, who can be difficult to isolate in a universe of millions of concurrent com-

munications. (As we describe later in this chapter, denial-of-service attacks can be, and 

often are, directed against one specific victim.)
In the next section we explore how similar tricks can be used in wireless, local net-
works, where a mere handful of users makes it feasible to focus an attack on just one. 

Notice that these networks can still connect to wider area networks such as the Internet. 

So one user’s full activity is still open to interception and modification; the point of 

intrusion is just immediately adjacent to the user.
6.3 WIRELESS NETWORK SECURITY
In this section we present the technology of wireless networking. We then describe two 

approaches for securing these networks. The first is widely acknowledged as a security 

failure. Studying this failed attempt should yield insight into why integrating security 

is hard for an existing technology with nonsecurity constraints. Phrased differently, this 

tale is a prime example of why security engineers beg to be included in designs from 

the beginning: Adding security after the design is fixed rarely succeeds. Still, from this 

story you can see what should have or could have been foreseen and addressed.
The second approach is better, but it, too, has security limitations. In this example 
you can see that even with a worked example of security pitfalls to avoid, crafting a suc-

cessful approach requires careful consideration of possible points of failure.
WiFi Background
Wireless traffic uses a section of the radio spectrum, so the signals are available to any-

one with an effective antenna within range. Because wireless computing is so exposed, it 

requires measures to protect communications between a computer (called the client) and a 

wireless base station or access point. Remembering that all these communications are on 
Network and vulnerability scanners can 
be used positively for management and 
administration and negatively for attack 
planning.