370 Chapter 6  
NetworksPort Scanning ResultsAs described previously in this chapter, a port is simply a numeric designation for rout-
ing data to a particular program that is waiting for it. The waiting program, called a dae-

mon or demon, is said to listen to a particular port; in fact, it registers with the network 

management software so it receives data addressed to that port. For example, by con-

vention port 110 is the port number associated with Post Office Protocol for email, 80 is 

dedicated to HTTP (web page) traffic, and 123 is assigned to the Network Time Proto-

col for clock synchronization. Over time the number of services has exceeded the range 

of available numbers, so there are collisions, reuses, informal uses, and reallocations.
Let us continue with our earlier discussion of a data request coming in on port 110, the Post Office Protocol. The client initiates a request to connect with a POP server by 

a defined protocol implemented in ASCII text commands. The server responds, typi-

cally identifying itself and sometimes its version number (so that client and server can 

synchronize on capabilities and expectations). We show a sample of that exchange in 

Figure 6-11. Lines from the client are labeled CL and responses from the POP server 

are labeled SV. Anyone can initiate such an exchange by using Telnet, the terminal 

emulator program.A scanner such as Nmap probes a range of ports, testing to see what services respond. An example output from Nmap is shown in Figure 6-12. (The site name and address 

have been changed.) Notice that the entire scan took only 34 seconds.
Port scanning tells an attacker three things: which standard ports or services are 
running and responding on the target system, what operating system is installed on 

the target system, and what applications and versions of applications are present. This 

information is readily available for the asking from a networked system; it can be 

obtained quietly, anonymously, without identification or authentication, drawing little 

or no attention to the scan.It might seem that the operating system name or versions of system applications 
would not be significant, but knowing that a particular host runs a given version—that 

may contain a known or even undisclosed flaw—of a service, an attacker can devise an 

attack to exploit precisely that vulnerability. Thus, a port scan can be a first step in a 

more serious attack.CL:   telnet incoming.server.net 110SV:   +OK Messaging Multiplexor (Sun Java(tm) System Messaging Server
6.2-6.01 (built Apr  3 2006))             
<4d3897ff.11ec04f8@vms108.mailsrvcs.net>
CL:   user v1
SV:   +OK password required for user v1@server.net
CL:   pass p1
SV:   -ERR [AUTH] Authentication failed
CL:   quit
SV:   +OK goodbyeFIGURE 6-11 POP Server Session Creation
