700 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsIn the next chapter we address laws and ethics. As we said in Chapter 1, computer 
security vulnerabilities can be controlled in many ways: some technological, some 

administrative, some physical, and some political. Laws represent the collective sense 

of a community that some behavior is unacceptable. But the legal system is not the only 

way inappropriate behavior is stopped: Some people choose not to do something on 

ethical grounds. Thus, we explore and compare laws and ethics as computer security 

controls.10.7 EXERCISES
1. In what ways is denial of service (lack of availability for authorized users) a vulnerability to 
users of single-user personal computers?2. Identify the three most probable threats to a computing system in an office with fewer than 
ten employees. That is, identify the three vulnerabilities most likely to be exploited. Estimate 

the number of times each vulnerability is exploited per year. Justify your estimate.
3. Perform the analysis of Exercise 2 for a computing system located in a large research 
laboratory.
4. Perform the analysis of Exercise 2 for a computing system located in the library of a major 
university.
5. What is the value of your own personal computer? How did you derive that number? Does it 
cover the cost to recover or recreate all the data you have on it?
6. List three factors that should be considered when developing a security plan.
7. Investigate your university’s or employer’s security plan to determine whether its security 
requirements meet all the conditions listed in this chapter. List any that do not. When was the 

plan written? When was it last reviewed and updated?
8. State a security requirement that is not realistic. State a security requirement that is not verifi-
able. State two security requirements that are inconsistent.
9. Cite three controls that could have both positive and negative effects.
10. For an airline, what are its most important assets? What are the minimal computing resources 
it would need to continue business for a limited period (up to two days)? What other systems 

or processes could it use during the period of the disaster?11. Answer Exercise 10 for a bank instead of an airline.
12. Answer Exercise 10 for an oil drilling company instead of an airline.
13. Answer Exercise 10 for a political campaign instead of an airline.
14. When is an incident over? That is, what factors influence whether to continue the work of the 
incident handling team or to disband it?15. List five kinds of harm that could occur to your own personal computer. Estimate the likeli-
hood of each, expressed in number of times per year (number of times could be a fraction, 

for example, 1/2 means could be expected to happen once every two years). Estimate the 

monetary loss that would occur from that harm. Compute the expected annual loss from these 

kinds of harm.16. Cite a risk in computing for which it is impossible or infeasible to develop a classical prob-
ability of occurrence.