 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
685  unimportant. It is much more significant that the expected loss is far above the 
$10,000 or $20,000 budget allocated for implementing a particular control. 

Moreover, anytime a risk analysis generates a large potential loss, the system 

deserves further scrutiny to see if the root cause of the risk can be addressed.
• Hard to perform. 
Enumerating assets, vulnerabilities, and controls requires cre-ative thinking. Assessing loss frequencies and impact can be difficult and sub-

jective. A large risk analysis will have many things to consider. Risk analysis 

can be restricted to certain assets or vulnerabilities, however.
• Immutability. Many software project leaders view processes like risk analysis as 
an irritating fact of life—a step to be taken in a hurry so that the developers can 

get on with the more interesting jobs related to designing, building, and testing 

the system. For this reason, risk analyses, like contingency plans and five-year 

plans, have a tendency to be filed and promptly forgotten. But if an organiza-

tion takes security seriously, it will view the risk analysis as a living document, 

updating it at least annually or in conjunction with major system upgrades. • Lack of accuracy. 
Risk analysis is not always accurate, for many reasons. First, 
we may not be able to calculate the risk probability with any accuracy, espe-

cially when we have no past history of similar situations. Second, even if we 

know the likelihood, we cannot always estimate the risk impact very well. The 

risk management literature is replete with papers about describing the scenario, 
showing that presenting the same situation in two different ways to two equiva-

lent groups of people can yield two radically different estimates of impact. And 

third, we may not be able to anticipate all the possible risks. For example, bridge 

builders did not know about the risks introduced by torque from high winds until 

the Tacoma Narrows Bridge twisted in the wind and collapsed. After studying 

the colossal failure of this bridge and discovering the cause, engineers made 

mandatory the inclusion of torque in their simulation parameters. Similarly, we 

may not know enough about software, security, or the context in which the sys-

tem is to be used, so there may be gaps in our risk analysis that cause it to be 
inaccurate.This lack of accuracy is often cited as a deficiency of risk analysis. But this lack is a 
red herring. Risk analysis is useful as a planning tool, to compare options. We may not 

be able to predict events accurately, but we can use risk analysis to weigh the trade-offs 

between one action and another. When risk analysis is used in security planning, it high-

lights which security expenditures are likely to be most cost effective. This investigative 

basis is important for choosing among controls when money available for security is 

limited. And our risk analysis should improve as we build more systems, evaluate their 

security, and have a larger experience base from which to draw our estimates.
A risk analysis has many advantages as part of a security plan or as a tool for less 
formal security decision making. It ranges from very subjective and imprecise to highly 

quantitative. It is useful for generating and documenting thoughts about likely threats 

and possible countermeasures. Finally, it supports rational decision making about secu-

rity controls. Next we turn to natural disasters with security implications.
