 Section 10.6  Conclusion 
699  However, this section should have made you aware of the major issues in physical secu-
rity. We have to protect the facility against many sorts of disasters, from weather to 

chemical spills and vehicle crashes to explosions. No one can predict what will occur or 

when. The physical security manager must consider all assets and a wide range of harm.
Malicious humans seeking physical access are a different category of threat agent. 
With them, you can consider motive or objective: Is it theft of equipment, disruption 

of processing, interception of data, or access to service? Fences, guards, solid walls, 

and locks will deter or prevent most human attacks. But you always need to ask where 

weaknesses remain; a solid wall has a weakness in every door and window.
The primary physical controls are strength and duplication. Strength means overlap-
ping controls implementing a defense-in-depth approach so that if one control fails, the 

next one will protect. People who built ancient castles practiced this philosophy with 

moats, walls, drawbridges, and arrow slits. Duplication means eliminating single points 

of failure. Redundant copies of data protect against harm to one copy from any cause. 

Spare hardware components protect against failures.
10.6 CONCLUSION
In this chapter we have considered the management aspects of computing: how to plan 

and prepare for emergencies. The most important step is considering the situation in 

advance. Identifying who is in charge in advance gives everyone a sense of control.
Risk analysis is a process that sounds more comprehensive and detailed than it is. A 
large organization cannot possibly identify all assets, threats, and likelihoods of exploi-

tation. Precision is not the point. Identifying the high items on these lists helps set pri-
orities and justify decisions and expenditures.
Incident response begins with an important first step: someone notices and reports 
something. Organizations need a single point to which to report to keep the response 

activity from becoming chaotic. People should be encouraged to report anything 

unusual, because at first it can be difficult to determine the nature and severity of a 

situation.Natural and physical disasters are as much a part of computer security as encryption and reference monitors. Because fire, flood, and loss of electricity occur in everyday 

life, people sometimes overlook their impact.
In this chapter we have described only the surface of managing security. Many read-
ers of this book will be students or technology professionals. These readers may wonder 

why we cover these nontechnological topics. First, not every computer security problem 

has a technological answer: Firewalls and sandboxes do nothing if a disk fails and there 

is no backup. Second, we think our readers should know briefly what the management 

side of computer security involves. Some readers will work for, or perhaps become, 

managers responsible not just for VPNs but also CSIRTs. Knowing the range of your 

manager’s concerns helps you get the fairest support for your particular area or issue. 

Finally, we want to expose our readers to the breadth of possibilities in computer secu-

rity. Not everyone will become a network engineer or secure software developer. Some 

will become incident response coordinators, capacity planners, risk officers, and foren-

sic analysts. Everyone should know of other specializations in the field.
