726 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsFinally, suppose Edye is not an employee of a company. Rather, she is a consultant 
who is self-employed and, for a fee, writes customized programs for her clients. Con-

sider her legal position in this situation. She may want to use the basic program design, 

generalize it somewhat, and market it to others. Edye argues that she thought up, wrote, 

and tested the program; therefore, it is her work, and she owns it. Her client argues that 

it paid Edye to develop the program, and it owns the program, just as it would own a 

bookcase she might be paid to build for the station.
Clearly, these situations differ, and interpreting the laws of ownership is difficult. Let 
us consider each type of protection in turn.Ownership of a PatentThe person who owns a work under patent or copyright law is the inventor; in the exam-
ples described earlier, the owner is the programmer or the employer. Under patent law, 

it is important to know who files the patent application. If an employee lets an employer 

patent an invention, the employer is deemed to own the patent and therefore the rights 

to the invention.
The employer also has the right to patent if the employee’s job functions included 
inventing the product. For instance, in a large company a scientist may be hired to do 

research and development, and the results of this inventive work become the property 

of the employer. Even if an employee patents something, the employer can argue for a 

right to use the invention if the employer contributed some resources (such as computer 

time or access to a library or database) in developing the invention.
Ownership of a CopyrightOwning a copyright is similar to owning a patent. The author (programmer) is the pre-
sumed owner of the work, and the owner has all rights to an object. However, a special 

situation known as 
work for hire
 applies to many copyrights for developing software or 
other products.Work for Hire
In a work for hire
 situation, the employer, 
not the employee, is considered the author of 
a work. Work for hire is not easy to identify and depends in part on the laws of the state 

in which the employment occurs. The relationship between an employee and employer 

is considered a work for hire if some or all of the following conditions are true. (The 

more of these conditions that are true, the more a situation resembles work for hire.)
• The employer has a supervisory relationship, overseeing the manner in which 
the creative work is done.
• The employer has the right to fire the employee.

• The employer arranges for the work to be done before the work was created (as 
opposed to the sale of an existing work).
• A written contract between the employer and employee states that the employer 
has hired the employee to do certain work.
