 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
675  Some organizations use other approaches to determining vulnerabilities and assess-
ing their importance. For example, Sidebar 10-6 describes the U.S. Navy’s approach to 

vulnerability evaluation.
Alas, there is no simple checklist or easy procedure to list all vulnerabilities. But 
from the earlier chapters of this book you have seen many examples of vulnerabilities to 

assets, and your mind has been trained to think of harm that can occur. Tools can help us 

conceive of vulnerabilities by providing a structured way to think. For example, assets 

have certain properties that make them vulnerable. The properties exist in three catego-

ries: aspects of the design or architecture, aspects of behavior, and general attributes. 

Table 10-4 lists these properties in more detail. Notice that the properties apply to many 

kinds of systems and at various places within a given system.
Step 3: Estimate Likelihood of ExploitationThe third step in conducting a risk analysis is determining how often each exposure is 
likely to be exploited. Likelihood of occurrence relates to the stringency of the existing 

controls and the likelihood that someone or something will evade the existing controls. 

Sidebar 10-7 describes several approaches to computing the probability that an event 

will occur: classical, frequency, and subjective. Each approach has its advantages and 

disadvantages, and we must choose the approach that best suits the situation (and its 

available information).
SIDEBAR 10-6  
Integrated Vulnerability Assessments 
and CARVER
The U.S. Navy (see http://www.safetycenter.navy.mil/orm/generalorm/
introduction/default.htm
) performs Integrated Vulnerability Assessments 
(IVAs) as part of its risk analysis process. An IVA uses checklists to review 

system vulnerabilities and suggest appropriate mitigative strategies. The 

steps in an IVA include
1. identifying vulnerabilities
2. assigning priorities to the vulnerabilities

3. brainstorming countermeasures

4. assessing the risks
The Criticality, Accessibility, Recuperability, Vulnerability, Effect, and 
Recognizability (CARVER) method is employed to assign priorities to the 

vulnerabilities. Numeric ratings are applied to each vulnerability, and the 

sum represents a vulnerability score. However, the summation procedure 

blurs the distinctions among different types of risks, so the value of the 

overall score is questionable. Nevertheless, IVAs and CARVER may be use-

ful in making security planning issues more visible.
