492 Chapter 6  
NetworksNetwork appliances such as firewalls, routers, switches, and load balancers often 
provide data for people to analyze and manage the network. Too much information can 

overwhelm a human network administrator, especially someone whose security skills 

are limited. Thus, management countermeasures are more appropriate for networks 

large or important enough to have an experienced security staff with adequate resources.
For all networks, with or without capable security teams, part of the burden of moni-
toring and detecting denial-of-service attacks can be handled by software. In the next 

section we describe intrusion detection and prevention systems, computer devices that 

do that kind of monitoring.Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)In this chapter, we’ve discussed networking and security products, including routers, 

switches, VPNs, and many varieties of firewalls, IDSs, and IPSs. A large enterprise 

can have hundreds or even thousands of such products, often of different brands and 

models, as well as tens of thousands of servers and workstations, all of which need to be 

monitored by security personnel. In this section, we discuss the tools that make it pos-

sible for a small security team to monitor and respond to security issues from all over 

such an enterprise.A Security Operations CenterAs an example, let’s imagine a retail grocery store chain named SiC Groceries, with 
headquarters in New York City and 1,000 stores all over the United States. All of SiC’s 

stores need to maintain network communication with headquarters in order to coordi-

nate store inventory, sales, employees, and other logistical issues, so each store needs 

an Internet connection as well as an always-on VPN connection to the home office. 

Internet connections at the retail stores are essentially the same as the ones you get from 
a local ISP, and they are vulnerable to attack like any other. Worse, an attacker who 

penetrates the retail store’s network will have insider access to corporate headquarters 

through the VPN. That means that every store in the chain is a potential attack vector 

for breaking into the primary corporate network and must be protected as such. Instead 

of having one firewall and one IDS protecting the corporate Internet connection, SiC 

Groceries needs 1,000 firewalls and IDSs protecting 1,000 Internet connections.
But who will monitor those firewalls and IDSs to make sure they’re working prop-
erly, respond to their alerts, and investigate possible security incidents at the retail 

stores? It certainly isn’t economical to have security staff at every store, as that kind of 

expertise is expensive, and each store will only rarely have a security issue that requires 

manual intervention. 
Instead, SiC Groceries will create a Security Operations Center (SOC) at a single location, perhaps their headquarters. A SOC is a team of security personnel dedicated 

to monitoring a network for security incidents and investigating and remediating those 

incidents.To make its SOC effective, SiC Groceries will have to allow the SOC team remote 
access to monitor all of the network and security products throughout its enterprise, 

including all of its stores. The security personnel can manually log in to every device to 
