612 Chapter 9  
Privacyverify. The stamp authenticator signifies only that the person possesses the attribute of 
being 21 or over.
In computing applications we frequently authenticate individuals, identities, and 
attributes. Privacy issues can arise when we confuse these different authentications and 

what they mean. For example, the U.S. social security number was never intended to be 

an identifier, but now it often serves as an identifier, an authenticator, a database key, 

or all three. When one data value serves two or more uses, a person acquiring it for one 

purpose can use it for another.
Relating an identity to a person is tricky. In Chapter 5 we tell the story of rootkits, 
malicious software by which an unauthorized person can acquire supervisory control 

of a computer. Suppose the police arrest Michel for a minor offense and seize his com-

puter. By examining the computer, the police find evidence connecting that computer 

to an espionage case. The police discover incriminating email messages from Michel 

on Michel’s computer and charge him. In his defense, Michel points to a rootkit on 

his computer. He acknowledges that his computer may have been used in the espio-

nage, but he denies the he was personally involved. The police have, he says, drawn an 

unjustifiable connection between Michel’s identity in the email and Michel the person. 

The rootkit is a plausible explanation for how some other person acted using Michel’s 

identity (his computer). This example shows why we must carefully distinguish among 

individual, identity, and attribute authentication.
We examine the privacy implications of authentication in the next section.
Individual AuthenticationThere are relatively few ways of identifying an individual. When you are born, your 
birth is registered at a government records office, and the office issues a birth certificate 

to your parents. A few years later, your parents enroll you in school, presenting the birth 

certificate so that the school can issue you a school identity card. Still later, you submit 

the birth certificate and a photo to get a passport or a national identity card. In a similar 

fashion, each of us receives many other authentication numbers and cards throughout 

life.This life-long process starts with a baby’s birth certificate. But the baby’s physical 
description (height, weight, even hair color) will change significantly in just months. 

The birth certificate may contain the baby’s fingerprints, but matching a poorly taken 

fingerprint of a newborn to that of an adult is challenging at best.
Fortunately, in most settings it is acceptable to settle for weak authentication for 
individuals: A friend who has known you since childhood, a schoolteacher, neighbors, 

and coworkers can support a claim of identity.
Identity AuthenticationWe all use many different identities. When you buy something with a credit card, you 
do so under the identity of the credit card holder. In some places you can pay road tolls 

with a radio frequency device in your car, so the sensor authenticates you as the holder 

of a particular toll device. You may have a meal plan that you can access by means of a 

card, so the cashier authenticates you as the card’s owner. You check into a hotel and get 
