 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
599  determine which law applies to a single piece of data. Also, gaps between laws are not 
always covered. As new technologies (such as cloud computing or embedded devices) 

are developed or are used for purposes for which they were not originally intended 

(such as using sensors in a t-shirt to monitor respiration rate), either existing privacy 

laws have to be reinterpreted by the courts to apply to the new technologies or new laws 

have to be passed, both of which take time. Later in this chapter, we see that breach 

notification laws have similar problems; each state has different requirements, and a 

federal breach notification law may have to resolve the differences.
Sometimes the privacy provisions of a law are a second purpose, somewhat dis-
guised by the first purpose of the law. As an example, the primary purpose of HIPAA 

was to ensure that people who left or were terminated from one job had health insurance 

to cover them until they got another job; the privacy aspects were far less prominent as 

the law was being developed.
Controls on U.S. Government Websites
Because privacy rules can be ambiguous, privacy policies are an important way both to 

define the concept of privacy in a particular setting and to specify what should or will 

be done if a rule is broken.
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has jurisdiction over websites, including 
those of the U.S. government, that solicit potentially private data. In 2000 [FTC00], 

the FTC established requirements for privacy policy for government websites. Because 

government websites are covered by the Privacy Act, it was easy for the FTC to require 

privacy protection. The FTC determined that, in order to obey the Privacy Act, govern-

ment websites would have to address five privacy factors:
• Notice. 
Data collectors must disclose their information practices before collect-ing personal information from consumers.• Choice. 
Consumers must be given a choice as to whether and how personal 
information collected from them may be used.• Access. Consumers should be able to view and contest the accuracy and com-
pleteness of data collected about them.• Security. 
Data collectors must take reasonable steps to assure that information 
collected from consumers is accurate and secure from unauthorized use.• Enforcement. 
A reliable mechanism must be in place to impose sanctions for 
noncompliance with these fair information practices.
In 2002, the U.S. Congress enacted the e-Government Act of 2002 requiring federal 
government agencies to post privacy policies on their websites.
 Those policies must 
disclose• the information that is to be collected
• the reason the information is being collected

• the intended use by the agency of the information

• the entities with whom the information will be shared
