xxvi Preface
a condition that could exercise a vulnerability. An incident occurs when a threat does 
exploit a vulnerability, causing harm. Finally, people add controls or countermeasures 

to prevent, deflect, diminish, detect, diagnose, and respond to threats. All of computer 

security is built from that simple framework. This book is about bad things that can hap-

pen with computers and ways to protect our computing. 
WHY READ THIS BOOK?Admit it. You know computing entails serious risks to the privacy of your personal 

data, the integrity of your data, or the operation of your computer. Risk is a fact of life: 

Crossing the street is risky, perhaps more so in some places than others, but you still 

cross the street. As a child you learned to stop and look both ways before crossing. As 

you became older you learned to gauge the speed of oncoming traffic and determine 

whether you had the time to cross. At some point you developed a sense of whether an 

oncoming car would slow down or yield. We hope you never had to practice this, but 

sometimes you have to decide whether darting into the street without looking is the 

best means of escaping danger. The point is all these matters depend on knowledge and 

experience. We want to help you develop comparable knowledge and experience with 

respect to the risks of secure computing.The same thing can be said about computer security in everything from personal 
devices to complex commercial systems: You start with a few basic terms, principles, 

and concepts. Then you learn the discipline by seeing those basics reappear in numer-

ous situations, including programs, operating systems, networks, and cloud comput-

ing. You pick up a few fundamental tools, such as authentication, access control, and 

encryption, and you understand how they apply in defense strategies. You start to think 

like an attacker, predicting the weaknesses that could be exploited, and then you shift to 

selecting defenses to counter those attacks. This last stage of playing both offense and 

defense makes computer security a creative and challenging activity.
USES FOR AND USERS OF THIS BOOKThis book is intended for people who want to learn about computer security; if you have 

read this far you may well be such a person. This book is intended for three groups of 

people: college and university students, computing professionals and managers, and 

users of all kinds of computer-based systems. All want to know the same thing: how to 

control the risk of computer security. But you may differ in how much information you 

need about particular topics: Some readers want a broad survey, while others want to 

focus on particular topics, such as networks or program development.
This book should provide the breadth and depth that most readers want. The book 
is organized by general area of computing, so that readers with particular interests can 

find information easily. 
