 Section 6.5  Distributed Denial-of-Service 
425  Sidebar 6-20 describes an example of an attacker with greater firepower. The battle 
was not one-on-one but many-against-one: The attacker called on an army of agents 

to attack at once from all directions. The attacks encountered in the sidebar occurred 

just as the attack community was advancing to a new mode of attack. The investigator 

understood ordinary denial-of-service attacks; what he didn’t understand at first was a 

distributed denial-of-service attack, in which the impact is multiplied by the force of 

many attackers.
SIDEBAR 6-20 Attacked by an Army
Barrett Lyon was a college dropout hacker turned computer consultant who 
had phenomenal focus and technical savvy. For helping one client expand 

and stabilize a web application network, he got referrals that led to more 

referrals.
The online betting firm BetCRIS had been plagued with occasional 
attacks that overwhelmed their website for up to a day, during which no 

bettors could place bets and hence BetCRIS earned no money, losing as 

much as $5 million of business in a day. During Spring 2003, the head of 

BetCRIS got an email message from an anonymous hacker warning that 

he would subject BetCRIS to a denial-of-service attack unless he was paid 
$500. After paying, the manager of BetCRIS asked colleagues for referrals 

and contacted Lyon for advice. Lyon recommended buying some hard-

ware devices designed for repelling such attacks; the manager of BetCRIS 

installed them and felt safe for the future.
In late November BetCRIS got another demand: An email message 
announced “Your site is under attack” and demanded $40,000 to leave Bet-

CRIS alone for a year. Thinking the solution Lyon had recommended was 

adequate, the manager of BetCRIS ignored the demand.
A massive denial-of-service attack overwhelmed the special-purpose machines in ten minutes, causing the BetCRIS site to crash; the attack also 
overwhelmed BetCRIS’s ISP, which dropped BetCRIS as a client to save its 

other customers. As the attack progressed, the demands progressed to 

$60,000 and ultimately $1 million dollars. During this time Lyon realized this 

was no ordinary denial-of-service attack launched from a few machines, 

but one involving hundreds, perhaps thousands, more.
Lyon knew the attacks had to have some similarity. He looked for close 
IP addresses so he could block an entire range, but found few. Some attacks 

went after routers while others seemed like normal customers. Lyon quickly 

wrote code to block things he could and bought equipment to become an 

ISP himself to serve BetCRIS. Meanwhile, the attacker went after business 
neighbors of BetCRIS in the online gambling community, as well as BetCRIS’s 

former ISPs. After several days of back-and-forth combat, Lyon won: The 

BetCRIS website was back up, stable, and performance was normal.
All told, the battle cost about $1 million, just what the attacker had wanted as extortion. In the combat, Lyon learned a lot about a new form of 

attack just emerging in 2003, the distributed denial-of-service attack [MEN10].