 Section 1.2  Threats 
15  Advanced Persistent Threat
Security experts are becoming increasingly concerned about a type of threat called 
advanced persistent threat
. A lone attacker might create a random attack that snares a 
few, or a few million, individuals, but the resulting impact is limited to what that single 

attacker can organize and manage. A collection of attackers—think, for example, of the 

cyber equivalent of a street gang or an organized crime squad—might work together to 

purloin credit card numbers or similar financial assets to fund other illegal activity. Such 

attackers tend to be opportunistic, picking unlucky victims’ pockets and moving on to 

other activities.
Advanced persistent threat attacks come from organized, well financed, patient 
assailants. Often affiliated with governments or quasi-governmental groups, these 

attackers engage in long term campaigns. They carefully select their targets, crafting 

attacks that appeal to specifically those targets; email messages called spear phishing 

(described in Chapter 4) are intended to seduce their recipients. Typically the attacks 

are silent, avoiding any obvious impact that would alert a victim, thereby allowing the 

attacker to exploit the victim’s access rights over a long time.
The motive of such attacks is sometimes unclear. One popular objective is economic 
espionage. A series of attacks, apparently organized and supported by the Chinese gov-

ernment, was used in 2012 and 2013 to obtain product designs from aerospace com-

panies in the United States. There is evidence the stub of the attack code was loaded 

into victim machines long in advance of the attack; then, the attackers installed the 

more complex code and extracted the desired data. In May 2014 the Justice Department 

indicted five Chinese hackers in absentia for these attacks.
ThreatsNaturalcausesBenignintentMaliciousintentRandomExamples: Fire,power failureHumancausesExample:
Impersonation DirectedExample: Maliciouscode on a general
web site Example:
Human error FIGURE 1-9 Kinds of Threats
