380 Chapter 6  
NetworksManagement FramesOf the three frame types, management frames are the most important now because they 
control the establishment and handling of a series of data flows. The most significant 

management frame types are these:• Beacon. Each access point periodically sends a beacon frame to announce its 
presence and relay information, such as timestamp, identifier, and other param-

eters regarding the access point. Any NICs that are within range receive this bea-

con. When you connect to a 

WiFi service, for example, at 

a coffee shop, your computer 

receives the beacon signal 

from the shop to be able to 
initiate communications.• Authentication
. A NIC initiates a request to interact with an access point by 
sending its identity in an authentication frame. The access point may request 
additional authentication data and finally either accepts or rejects the request. 

Either party sends a deauthentication frame to terminate an established inter-
action. Thus, for example, 

your computer responds to 

the coffee shop’s beacon 

signal by returning its iden-
tity (MAC address) in an 

authentication frame.• Association request and response
. Following authentication, a NIC requests 
an access point to establish a session, meaning that the NIC and access point 

exchange information about their capabilities and agree on parameters of their 

interaction. An important part of establishing the association is agreeing on 

encryption. For example, an access point may be able to handle three differ-

ent encryption algorithms, call them A, B, and C, and the requesting NIC can 

handle only two algorithms, call them B and D. In the association these two 

would determine that they share algorithm B and thus agree to use that form of 

encryption to communicate. A 
deassociation request 
is a request to terminate a session.FIGURE 6-16 Format of a WiFi Frame
HeaderDataFrame control
Frame typeSequencingDirectionWEPDestination MACSource MAC
A beacon signal advertises a network accepting connections.A NIC requests a connection by sending 

an authentication frame.