 Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography 
37  these options all have analogues in modern computer security. The specifics change, but 
the broad strokes remain the same.
In this chapter, we lay the foundation for computer security by studying those broad 
strokes. We look at a number of ubiquitous security strategies, identify the threats 

against which each of those strategies is effective, and give examples of representative 

countermeasures. Throughout the rest of this book, as we delve into the specific techni-

cal security measures used in operating systems, programming, websites and browsers, 

and networks, we revisit these same strategies again and again. Years from now, when 

we’re all using technology that hasn’t even been imagined yet, this chapter should be 

just as relevant as it is today.
A security professional analyzes situations by finding threats and vulnerabilities 
to the confidentiality, integrity, and/or availability of a computing system. Often, con-

trolling these threats and vulnerabilities involves a policy that specifies 
who (which 
subjects) can access what (which objects) 
how (by which means). We introduced that 
framework in Chapter 1. But now we want to delve more deeply into how such a policy 

works. To be effective the policy enforcement must determine 
who accurately. That is, 
if policy says Adam can access something, security fails if someone else impersonates 

Adam. Thus, to enforce security policies properly, we need ways to determine beyond a 

reasonable doubt that a subject’s identity is accurate. The property of accurate identifi-

cation is called authentication. The first critical tool for security professionals is authen-

tication and its techniques and technologies.When we introduced security policies we did not explicitly state the converse: A 
subject is allowed to access an object in a particular mode but, unless authorized, all 

other subjects are not allowed to access the object. A policy without such limits is prac-
tically useless. What good does it do to say one subject can access an object if any other 

subject can do so without being authorized by policy. Consequently, we need ways to 

restrict access to only those subjects on the yes list, like admitting theatre patrons to a 
play (with tickets) or checking in invitees to a party (on a guest list). Someone or some-

thing controls access, for example, an usher collects tickets or a host manages the guest 

list. Allowing exactly those accesses authorized is called access control. Mechanisms to 

implement access control are another fundamental computer security tool.Suppose you were trying to limit access to a football match being held on an open park in a populous city. Without a fence, gate, or moat, you could not limit who could 

see the game. But suppose you had super powers and could cloak the players in invis-

ibility uniforms. You would issue special glasses only to people allowed to see the 

match; others might look but see nothing. Although this scenario is pure fantasy, such 

an invisibility technology does exist, called encryption. Simply put, encryption is a tool 

by which we can transform data so only intended receivers (who have keys, the equiva-

lent of anti-cloaking glasses) can deduce the concealed bits. The third and final funda-

mental security tool in this chapter is encryption.In this chapter we describe these tools and then give a few examples to help you 
understand how the tools work. But most applications of these tools come in later 

chapters, where we elaborate on their use in the context of a more complete secu-

rity situation. In most of this chapter we dissect our three fundamental security tools: 
authentication, access control, and encryption.