746 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsStudying EthicsThe study of ethics is not easy because the issues are complex. Sometimes people con-
fuse ethics with religion because many religions supply a framework in which to make 

ethical choices. However, ethics can be studied apart from any religious connection. 

Difficult choices would be easier to make if there were a set of universal ethical prin-

ciples to which everyone agreed. But the variety of social, cultural, and religious beliefs 

makes the identification of such a set of universal principles impossible. In this section 

we explore some of these problems 

and then consider how understand-

ing ethics can help in dealing with 

issues of computer security.
Ethics and ReligionEthics is a set of principles or norms for justifying what is right or wrong in a given 
situation. To understand what ethics 
is we may start by trying to understand what it 
is not. Ethical principles are different from religious beliefs. Religion is based on personal 
notions about the creation of the world and the existence of controlling forces or beings. 

Many moral principles are embodied in the major religions, and the basis of a personal 

morality is a matter of belief and conviction, much the same as for religions. However, 

two people with different religious backgrounds may develop the same ethical philoso-

phy, while two exponents of the same religion might reach opposite ethical conclusions 

in a particular situation. Finally, we can analyze a situation from an ethical perspective 

and reach ethical conclusions without appealing to any particular religion or religious 

framework. Thus, it is important to distinguish ethics from religion.
Ethical Principles Are Not Universal
Ethical values vary by society, and from person to person within a society. For example, 
the concept of privacy is important in Western cultures. But in Eastern cultures, privacy 

is not desirable because people associate privacy with having something to hide. Not 

only is a Westerner’s desire for privacy not understood but in fact it has a negative con-
notation. Therefore, the attitudes of people may be affected by culture or background.
Also, an individual’s standards of behavior may be influenced by past events in life. 
A person who grew up in a large family may place greater emphasis on personal control 

and ownership of possessions than would an only child who seldom had to share. Major 

events or close contact with others can also shape one’s ethical position. Despite these 

differences, the underlying principles of how to make moral judgment are the same.
Although these aspects of ethics are quite reasonable and understandable, they lead 
people to distrust ethics because it is not founded on basic principles all can accept. 

Also, people from a scientific or technical background expect precision and universality.
Ethics Does Not Provide Answers
Ethical pluralism is recognizing or admitting that more than one position may be ethi-
cally justifiable—even equally so—in a given situation. Pluralism is another way of 
Ethics are personal choices about right 

and wrong actions in a given situation.
