710 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsAmong the provisions of the DMCA are these:
• Digital objects 
can be subject to copyright.
• It is a crime to circumvent or disable antipiracy functionality built into an object.

• It is a crime to manufacture, sell, or distribute devices that disable antipiracy 
functionality or that copy digital objects.
• However, these devices can be used (and manufactured, sold, or distributed) for 
research and educational purposes.• It is acceptable to make a backup copy of a digital object as a protection against 
hardware or software failure or to store copies in an archive.
• Libraries can make up to three copies of a digital object for lending to other 
libraries.So, a user can make reasonable copies of an object in the normal course of its use 
and as a protection against system failures. If a system is regularly backed up and so a 

digital object (such as a software program) is copied onto many backups, that is not a 

violation of copyright.
The uncertainty comes in deciding what is considered to be a device to counter 
piracy. A disassembler or decompiler could support piracy or could be used to study 

and enhance a program. Someone who decompiles an executable program, studies it 

to infer its method, and then modifies, compiles, and sells the result is misusing the 

decompiler. But the distinction is hard to enforce, in part because the usage depends 

on intent and context. It is as if there were a law saying it is legal to sell a knife to cut 

vegetables but not to harm people. Knives do not know their uses; the users determine 

intent and context.
Consider a music CD that you buy for the obvious reason: to listen to again and 
again. You want to listen to the music on your MP3 player, a reasonable fair use. But the 

CD is copy protected, so you cannot download the music to your computer to transfer it 

to your MP3 player. You have been prohibited from reasonable fair use. Furthermore, if 

you try to do anything to circumvent the antipiracy protection, you violate the antipiracy 

provision, nor can you buy a tool or program that would let you download your own 

music to your own MP3 player, because such a tool would violate that provision.
Reaction to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has not been uniformly favor-
able. (See, for example, [MAN98 and EFF06].) Some say it limits computer security 

research. Worse, others point out it can be used to prevent exactly the free interchange 

of ideas that copyright was intended to promote. In 2001 a Princeton University pro-

fessor, Edward Felten, and students presented a paper on cryptanalysis of the digital 

watermarking techniques used to protect digital music files from being copied. They 

had been pressured not to present in the preceding April by music industry groups who 

threatened legal action under the DMCA.
An emerging principle is that software, like music, is acquired in a style more like 
rental than purchase. You purchase not a piece of software, but the right to use it. Clari-

fying this position, the U.S. No Electronic Theft (NET) Act of 1997 makes it a criminal 

offense to reproduce or distribute copyrighted works, such as software or digital record-

ings, even without charge.
