664 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsTo develop policy and identify a response team, you need to consider certain matters.
• Legal issues
: An incident has legal ramifications. In some countries, computer 
intrusions are illegal, so law enforcement officials must be involved in the inves-

tigation. In other places, you have discretion in deciding whether to ask law 

enforcement to participate. In addition to criminal action, you may be able to 
bring a civil case. Both kinds of legal action have serious implications for the 

response. For example, evidence must be gathered and maintained in specific 

ways in order to be usable in court. Similarly, laws may limit what you can do 

against the alleged attacker: Cutting off a connection is probably acceptable, but 

launching a retaliatory denial-of-service attack may not be.• Preserving evidence
: The most common reaction in an incident is to assume the 
cause was internal or accidental. For instance, you may first assume that hard-

ware has failed or software isn’t working correctly. The staff may be directed to 

change the configuration, reload the software, reboot the system, or similarly 

attempt to resolve the problem by adjusting the software. Unfortunately, each 

of these acts can irreparably distort or destroy evidence. When dealing with a 

possible incident, do as little as possible before securing the site and “dusting 
for fingerprints.”
• Records
: It may be difficult to remember what you have already done: Have you 
already reloaded a particular file? What steps got you to the prompt asking for 

the new DNS server’s address? If you call in an outside forensic investigator or 

the police, you will need to tell exactly what you have already done. A list of 

what was done can also help people who need to determine what happened, how 

to prevent it in the future, and how to restore data and computing capabilities.
• Public relations
: In handling an incident your organization should speak with 
one voice. You risk sending confusing messages if too many people speak. Only 

one person should speak publicly if legal action may be taken. An unguarded 

comment may tip off the attacker or have a negative effect on the case. You can 

simply say that an incident occurred, tell briefly and generally what it was, and 

state that the situation is now under control and normal operation will resume (at 

a particular time, if a reliable estimate can be given).
Incident responders first perform triage: They investigate what has happened. “The 
network is responding slowly” can have many causes, from heavy usage to electronic 

malfunction to terrorist attack. 

Based on first analysis the team 

decides what steps to take to address 

the incident.Some incidents resolve them-
selves (for example, the heavy usage ends), some stay the same (the malfunction does 

not heal itself), and some get worse (the attack intensifies). Incident responders follow 

the case until they have identified the cause and done as much as possible to return the 

system to normal. Then the team finishes documenting its work and declares the inci-

dent over.
“Is this really an incident” is the most 

important question.