 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
607  Multiple identities can also be convenient; for example, you may have a profes-
sional email account and a social one. Similarly, disposable identities (that you use for a 

while and then stop using) can be convenient. When you sign up for something and you 

know your email address will subsequently be sold many times, you might get a new 

email address to use only until the unsolicited email becomes oppressive. Seigneur and 

Jensen [SEI03] discuss the use of email aliases to maintain privacy. These uses, called 

pseudonymity, protect our privacy because we do not have to divulge what we consider 
sensitive data. 
The Swiss bank account provides a classic example of pseudonymity. Each cus-
tomer has only a number to identify and access the account, and only a few selected 

bank employees are allowed to know your identity; all other employees see only your 

account number. On account statements, no name appears: Only the account number 

or a pseudonym is printed. “Only in case of a criminal investigation for drug offenses, 

financing terrorism or another heavy crime, the identity of the beneficial owner will be 

disclosed to the authorities . . . You are protected by Swiss bank secrecy law.” (http://

swiss-banking-law.com/faq/)
Some people register pseudonyms with email providers, so that they have anony-
mous drop boxes for email. Others use pseudonyms in chat rooms or with online dat-

ing services. We revisit the notion of pseudonyms later in this chapter, when we study 

privacy for email.
Governments and Privacy
Governments gather and store data on citizens, residents, and visitors. At the same time, 

governments also facilitate and regulate commerce and oversee personal activities such 

as healthcare, employment, education, and banking. In those roles, the government is 

an enabler or regulator of privacy as well as a user of private data. In this section, we 

consider some of the implications of government access to private data.
AuthenticationGovernment plays a complex role in personal authentication. Many government agen-
cies (such as the motor vehicles bureau) use identifiers to perform their work: authen-

ticating who you are (for instance, with a passport or residency document) and issuing 

related authenticating documents (such as a driver’s license). The government may also 

regulate the businesses that use identification and authentication materials. And some-

times the government obtains data based on those materials from others (for example, 

the government may buy credit report information from private companies to help with 

screening airline passenger lists for terrorists). In these multiple roles, there is always a 

potential for the government to misuse data and violate privacy rights.
Data Access RisksRecognizing these risks in government access to personal data, the U.S. Secretary of 
Defense appointed a committee to investigate and document the nature of risks in such 

data collection. The Technology and Privacy Advisory Committee, chaired by Newton 
