46 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Defeating Concealment Easier than guessing a password is just to read one from a table, like the sample table 

shown in Table 2-2. The operating system authenticates a user by asking for a name and 

password, which it then has to validate, most likely by comparing to a value stored in 

a table. But that table then becomes a treasure trove for evil-doers: Obtaining the table 

gives access to all accounts because it contains not just one but all user IDs and their 

corresponding passwords.
Operating systems stymie that approach by storing passwords not in their public form 
but in a concealed form (using encryption, which we describe later in this chapter), as 

shown in Table 2-3. When a user creates a password, the operating system accepts and 

immediately conceals it, storing the unreadable version. Later when the user attempts 

to authenticate by entering a user ID 
and password, the operating system 

accepts whatever is typed, applies 

the same concealing function, and 

compares the concealed version 

with what is stored. If the two forms 

match, the authentication passes.We used the term “conceal” in 
the previous paragraph because sometimes the operating system performs some form of 

scrambling that is not really encryption, or sometimes it is a restricted form of encryp-
tion. The only critical point is that the process be one-way: Converting a password to its 

concealment form is simple, but going the other way (starting with a concealed version 

and deriving the corresponding password) is effectively impossible. (For this reason, 

on some websites if you forget your password, the system can reset your password to a 

new, random value, but it cannot tell you what your forgotten password was.)
For active authentication, that is, entering identity and authenticator to be able to 
access a system, most systems lock out a user who fails a small number of successive 

login attempts. This failure count prevents an attacker from attempting more than a 

few guesses. (Note, however, that this lockout feature gives an attacker a way to pre-

vent access by a legitimate user: simply enter enough incorrect passwords to cause the 
TABLE 2-2  
Sample Password 
Table
IdentityPassword
Janeqwerty

Pataaaaaa

Phillipoct31witch

Rozaaaaaa

Hermanguessme

Claireaq3wm$oto!4
TABLE 2-3  
Sample Password Table with 
Concealed Password Values
IdentityPassword
Jane0x471aa2d2

Pat0x13b9c32f

Phillip0x01c142be

Roz0x13b9c32f

Herman0x5202aae2

Claire0x488b8c27
Operating systems store passwords 
in hidden (encrypted) form so that 
compromising the id–password list does 

not give immediate access to all user 
accounts.