656 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentsattackers to break an encryption algorithm). The inventory of objects and the list of 
controls should periodically be scrutinized and updated, and risk analysis performed 

anew. The security plan should set times for these periodic reviews, based either on cal-

endar time (such as, review the plan 

every nine months) or on the nature 

of system changes (such as, review 

the plan after every major system 

release).Security Planning Team Members
Who performs the security analysis, recommends a security program, and writes the 

security plan? As with any such comprehensive task, these activities are likely to be 

performed by a committee that represents all the interests involved. The size of the com-

mittee depends on the size and complexity of the computing organization and the degree 
of its commitment to security. Organizational behavior studies suggest that the optimum 

size for a working committee is between five and nine members. Sometimes a larger 

committee may serve as an oversight body to review and comment on the products of a 

smaller working committee. Alternatively, a large committee might designate subcom-

mittees to develop sections of the plan.
The membership of a computer security planning team must somehow relate to 
the different aspects of computer security described in this book. Security in operat-

ing systems and networks requires the cooperation of the systems administration staff. 

Program security measures can be understood and recommended by applications pro-

grammers. Physical security controls are implemented by those responsible for general 
physical security, both against human attacks and natural disasters. Finally, because 

controls affect system users, the plan should incorporate users’ views, especially with 

regard to usability and the general desirability of controls.
Thus, no matter how it is organized, a security planning team should represent each 
of the following groups.
• computer hardware group
• system administrators

• systems programmers

• applications programmers

• data entry personnel

• physical security personnel

• representative users
In some cases, a group can be adequately represented by someone who is consulted at appropriate times, rather than a committee member from each possible constituency 

being enlisted.Assuring Commitment to a Security PlanAfter the plan is written, it must be accepted and its recommendations carried out. 

Acceptance by the organization is key: A plan that has no organizational commitment is 
Security plans must be revisited 

periodically to adapt them to changing 
conditions.