498 Chapter 6  
Networks17. A port scanner is a tool useful to an attacker to identify possible vulnerabilities in a potential 
victim’s system. Cite a situation in which someone who is not an attacker could use a port 

scanner for a nonmalicious purpose.18. One argument in the security community is that lack of diversity is itself a vulnerability. For 
example, the two dominant browsers, Mozilla Firefox and Microsoft Internet Explorer, are 

used by approximately 95 percent of Internet users. What security risk does this control of 

the market introduce? Suppose there were three (each with a significant share of the market). 

Would three negate that security risk? If not, would four? Five? Explain your answers.
19. Compare copper wire, microwave, optical fiber, infrared, and (radio frequency) wireless in 
their resistance to passive and active wiretapping.
20. Explain why the onion router prevents any intermediate node from knowing the true source 
and destination of a communication.21. Onion routing depends on intermediate nodes. Is it adequate for there to be only one interme-
diate node? Justify your answer.
22. Suppose an intermediate node for onion routing were malicious, exposing the source and 
destination of communications it forwarded. Clearly this disclosure would damage the con-

fidentiality onion routing was designed to achieve. If the malicious node were one of two in 

the middle, what would be exposed. If it were one of three, what would be lost. Explain your 

answer in terms of the malicious node in each of the first, second, and third positions. How 

many nonmalicious nodes are necessary to preserve privacy?
23. A problem with pattern matching is synonyms. If the current directory is bin, and . denotes 
the current directory and .. its parent, then bin, ../bin, ../bin/., .././bin/../bin all denote the same 
directory. If you are trying to block access to the bin directory in a command script, you need 

to consider all these variants (and an infinite number more). Cite a means by which a pattern-

matching algorithm copes with synonyms.
24. The HTTP protocol is by definition stateless, meaning that it has no mechanism for “remem-
bering” data from one interaction to the next. (a) Suggest a means by which you can preserve 

state between two HTTP calls. For example, you may send the user a page of books and 

prices matching a user’s query, and you want to avoid having to look up the price of each 

book again once the user chooses one to purchase. (b) Suggest a means by which you can 
preserve some notion of state between two web accesses many days apart. For example, the 

user may prefer prices quoted in euros instead of dollars, and you want to present prices in 

the preferred currency next time without asking the user.
25. How can a website distinguish between lack of capacity and a denial-of-service attack? For 
example, websites often experience a tremendous increase in volume of traffic right after 

an advertisement displaying the site’s URL is shown on television during the broadcast of 

a popular sporting event. That spike in usage is the result of normal access that happens to 

occur at the same time. How can a site determine when high traffic is reasonable?
26. Syn flood is the result of some incomplete protocol exchange: The client initiates an exchange 
but does not complete it. Unfortunately, these situations can also occur normally. Describe a 

benign situation that could cause a protocol exchange to be incomplete.
27. A distributed denial-of-service attack requires zombies running on numerous machines to 
perform part of the attack simultaneously. If you were a system administrator looking for 

zombies on your network, what would you look for?
28. Signing of mobile code is a suggested approach for addressing the vulnerability of hostile code. Outline what a code-signing scheme would have to do.
