 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
91  ciphertext message, mathematical or statistical tools and techniques, and properties of 
languages, as well as plenty of ingenuity and luck. Each piece of evidence can provide a 

clue, and the analyst puts the clues together to try to form a larger picture of a message’s 

meaning in the context of how the encryption is done. Remember that there are no rules. 

An interceptor can use any means available to tease out the meaning of the message.
Work Factor
An encryption algorithm is called breakable
 when, given enough time and data, an 
analyst can determine the algorithm. However, an algorithm that is theoretically break-

able may in fact be impractical to try to break. To see why, consider a 25-character 

message that is expressed in just uppercase letters. A given cipher scheme may have 

2625 (approximately 10
35) possible decipherments, so the task is to select the right one out of the 2625. If your computer could perform on the order of 1010 operations per sec-
ond, finding this decipherment would require on the order of 10
25 seconds, or roughly 
1017 years. In this case, although we know that theoretically we could generate the 
solution, determining the deciphering algorithm by examining all possibilities can be 

ignored as infeasible with current technology.
The difficulty of breaking an encryption is called its 
work factor
. Again, an anal-
ogy to physical locks may prove helpful. As you know, physical keys have notches or 

other irregularities, and the notches cause pins to move inside a lock, allowing the lock 

to open. Some simple locks, such as those sold with suitcases, have only one notch, so 

these locks can often be opened with just a piece of bent wire; worse yet, some manu-

facturers produce only a few (and sometimes just one!) distinct internal pin designs; you 

might be able to open any such lock with a ring of just a few keys. Clearly these locks 

are cosmetic only.
Common house locks have five or six notches, and each notch can have any of ten 
depths. To open such a lock requires finding the right combination of notch depths, of 

which there may be up to a million possibilities, so carrying a ring of that many keys is 

infeasible. Even though in theory someone could open one of these locks by trying all 

possible keys, in practice the number of possibilities is prohibitive. We say that the work 

factor to open one of these locks without the appropriate key is large enough to deter 

most attacks. So too with cryptog-
raphy: An encryption is adequate if 

the work to decrypt without know-

ing the encryption key is greater 

than the value of the encrypted data.
Two other important issues must 
be addressed when considering the breakability of encryption algorithms. First, the 

cryptanalyst cannot be expected to try only the hard, long way. In the example just 

presented, the obvious decryption might require 26
25 machine operations, but a more 
ingenious approach might require only 1015 operations. At the speed of 10
10 operations per second, 1015 operations take slightly more than one day. The ingenious approach is 
certainly feasible. In fact, newspapers sometimes print cryptogram puzzles that humans 

solve with pen and paper alone, so there is clearly a shortcut to our computer machine 

time estimate of years or even one day of effort. The newspaper games give hints about 
Work factor: amount of effort needed 

to break an encryption (or mount a 

successful attack)