774 Chapter 12  
Details of CryptographySubstitution and Transposition
The two cryptographic primitives are substitution and transposition. In a 
substitution, one set of bits is exchanged for another. If the encryption works on alphabetic letters, 

each letter can be replaced by another, much like the cryptogram puzzles published 

in some newspapers. Substitutions can also be done on bytes or data blocks of other 

sizes. The substitution involves a simple table lookup, so it can be done quickly, and a 

hardware cryptographic processor can be optimized with the substitution table encoded 

within the processor’s memory.
A weakness of substitution is its regularity. In a letter-based substitution, if E is 
always replaced by p, the frequency of the ciphertext p will match that of plaintext E, 

giving a clue to the analyst. For this reason, substitutions are seldom used on their own. 

At times the substitution table is changed, so that, for example, E is replaced sometimes 

by p and sometimes by w. This use of multiple replacements helps smooth out apparent 

patterns in the output ciphertext.
1Transposition
 involves rearranging the order of the ciphertext to break any repeat-
ing patterns in the underlying plaintext. Some newspapers also publish puzzles of indi-

vidual words, the letters of which have been scrambled. Solvers of these puzzles look 

for common letter patterns, such as Q followed by U, E-D, I-N-G, and terminal S. If 

transposition is used by itself, these orthographic patterns help solve the puzzle.
Many cryptographic algorithms involve both substitution and transposition; the sub-
stitution smooths the distribution of ciphertext output and the transposition breaks up 

apparent patterns of succeeding plaintext units.
Confusion and Diffusion
Two additional important concepts are related to the amount of work required to perform 
an encryption. An encrypting algorithm should take the information from the plaintext 

and transform it so that the interceptor cannot readily recognize the message. The inter-

ceptor should not be able to predict what will happen to the ciphertext by changing one 

character in the plaintext. We call this characteristic 
confusion. An algorithm providing 
good confusion has a complex functional relationship between the plaintext/key pair 

and the ciphertext. In this way, an interceptor will need a long time to determine the 

relationship between plaintext, key, and ciphertext; therefore, the interceptor will take a 

long time to break the code. Substitution achieves confusion.
The cipher should also spread the information from the plaintext over the entire 
ciphertext so that changes in the plaintext affect many parts of the ciphertext. This prin-

ciple is called diffusion, the characteristic of distributing the information from single 
plaintext letters over the entire output. Good diffusion means that the interceptor needs 

access to much of the ciphertext to be able to infer the algorithm. Transposition achieves 

diffusion.
1. The Engima machine, mentioned in Sidebar 12-2, was a substitution code device used by Germans in 
World War II. See the description by David Kahn [KAH96] of how it changed the substitution with each 

letter in a complex but algorithmic (and hence reversible) way.
