 Section 6.1  Network Concepts 
353  Many common services are bound to agreed-on 
ports, which are essentially just num-bers to identify different services; the destination port number is given in the header of 

each packet or data unit. Ports 0 to 4095 are called 
well-known ports
 and are by conven-
tion associated with specific services. For example, incoming email is often transmitted 

with the Post Office Protocol (POP), and the POP server is typically bound to port 110. A 

POP server is a program that receives and holds incoming email and waits for a client to 

request email that has been received 

and queued. The client contacts the 

server, sending to port 110 a packet 

requesting establishment of a ses-
sion; with the server’s response, the 

client and server negotiate to transfer 

mail from the server. 
This overview or review of networking necessarily omits vital details. Our purpose is 
only to ensure you know some of the elementary terms and concepts of networks so we 

can examine security issues in networks.
PART I—WAR ON NETWORKS: NETWORK SECURITY ATTACKS
In this part we cover three types of security threats and vulnerabilities: First, we con-

sider the network versions of confidentiality and integrity failures. In a network, loss 

of confidentiality is often called wiretapping (even when there is no physical wire 

involved), and loss of integrity goes under the broad title of data corruption. Although 

the methods of attack may be new, loss of confidentiality or integrity should be familiar 

from previous chapters in which we explore these failings in programs, browsers, and 

operating systems. The second threat we address involves wireless networks. Here, too, the primary 
harm is to the confidentiality or integrity of a user’s data. In contrast to shared, wide-

area networks, wireless networks are something over which the user has some control. 

In large, centrally-managed, shared networks, users have little control over the kind of 

security services available. By contrast, a wireless network is smaller, there may be no 

active management or monitoring, and the parties sharing the network are quite local. 

Consequently, users have a more direct role in security.
For the third topic of this part we explore availability, or its loss, in a class of attacks 
known as denial of service. Because connectivity or access is a critical aspect of net-

worked computing, anything that severely limits use of a network negates the whole 

purpose of networking. Thus, attackers who can deny service to users cause serious 

harm. Denial-of-service attacks are the first instance in this book for which availability, 

not confidentiality or integrity, is the dominant security feature.
As we present these three types of threats we also hint at their controls and counter-
measures. However, Part II of this chapter is the place where we present these controls 

and countermeasures in depth.Port: number associated with an 
application program that serves or 

monitors for a network service