718 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicsdealt for many years. Let us examine why information is different from other commer-
cial things.Information Is Not DepletableUnlike tangible things and services, information can be sold again and again without 
depleting stock or diminishing quality. For example, a credit bureau can sell the same 

credit report on an individual to an unlimited number of requesting clients. Each cli-

ent pays for the information in the 

report. The report may be delivered 

on some tangible medium, such as 

paper, but it is the 
information, not the medium, that has the value.
This characteristic separates information from other tangible works, such as books, 
CDs, or art prints. Each tangible work is a single copy, which can be individually num-

bered or accounted for. A bookshop can always order more copies of a book if the stock 

becomes depleted, but it can sell only as many copies as it has.
Information Can Be ReplicatedThe value of information is what the buyer will pay the seller. But after having bought 
the information, the buyer can then become a seller and can potentially deprive the 

original seller of further sales. Because information is not depletable, the buyer can 

enjoy or use the information and can also sell it many times over, perhaps even making 

a profit.
Information Has a Minimal Marginal CostThe marginal cost 
of an item is the cost to produce another one after having produced 
some already. If a newspaper sold only one copy on a particular day, that one issue 

would be prohibitively expensive because it would have to cover the day’s cost (salary 

and benefits) of all the writers, editors, and production staff, as well as a share of the 

cost of all equipment for its production. These are fixed costs needed to produce a first 

copy. With this model, the cost of the second and subsequent copies is minuscule, rep-

resenting basically just the cost of paper and ink to print them. Fortunately, newspapers 

have very large press runs and daily sales, so the fixed costs are spread evenly across a 

large number of copies printed. More importantly, publishers have a reasonable idea of 

how many copies will sell, so they adjust their budgets to make a profit at the expected 

sales volume, and extra sales simply increase the profit. Also, newspapers budget by the 

month or quarter or year so that the price of a single issue does not fluctuate based on 
the number of copies sold of yesterday’s edition.
In theory, a purchaser of a copy of a newspaper could print and sell other copies of 
that copy, although doing so would violate copyright law. Few purchasers do that, for 

four reasons.• The newspaper is covered by copyright law.
• The cost of reproduction is too high for the average person to make a profit.
Information has value unrelated to 
whatever medium contains it.