298 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsAnother implementation used a hardware register, often called a 
fence register
, con-taining the address of the end of the operating system. In contrast to a fixed fence, 

in this scheme the location of the fence could be changed. Each time a user program 
generated an address for data modification, the address was automatically compared 

with the fence address. If the address was greater than the fence address (that is, in the 

user area), the instruction was executed; if it was less than the fence address (that is, in 

the operating system area), an error condition was raised. The use of fence registers is 

shown in Figure 5-7.
A fence register protects in only one direction. In other words, an operating system 
can be protected from a single user, but the fence cannot protect one user from another 

user. Similarly, a user cannot identify certain areas of the program as inviolable (such as 

the code of the program itself or a read-only data area).Base/Bounds Registers A major advantage of an operating system with fence registers is the ability to relo-

cate; this characteristic is especially important in a multiuser environment, although it is 

also useful with multiple concurrent processes loaded dynamically (that is, only when 
called). With two or more users, none can know in advance where a program will be 

loaded for execution. The relocation register solves the problem by providing a base or 

starting address. All addresses inside a program are offsets from that base address. A 

variable fence register is generally known as a 
base register
.Fence registers designate a lower bound (a starting address) but not an upper one. 
An upper bound can be useful in knowing how much space is allotted and in checking 

for overflows into “forbidden” areas. To overcome this difficulty, a second register is 

often added, as shown in Figure 5-8. The second register, called a 
bounds register
, is an upper address limit, in the same way that a base or fence register is a lower address 
MemoryOperating SystemUser Program Space
Addresses 0nn + 1HighHardwareAddressLimitationAddressingRangeFIGURE 5-6 Fence Protection