 Section 10.3  Handling Incidents 
667  • analyze the source, impact, and structure of malicious code
• help manage installations and networks by developing defenses such as 
signatures• perform penetration testing and vulnerability analysis

• understand current technologies used in attacks
Specialized skills can be brought into the response team as needed for specific 
incidents.Forming the team in advance lets an organization select people according to their 
personal and technical skills, try out different member groupings to determine whether 

the mix of people is effective, and let the team members develop camaraderie and trust 

before having to work together on an incident. Additionally, at least some incident 

response team members will have other jobs in the organization; that is, they do not 

work full time for the incident team. With advance notice, managers can plan for other 

people to take over the work of the person seconded to the incident response team for 

the duration of the incident.Information SharingAs Robin Ruefle and colleagues [RUE14] report, information sharing is a key respon-
sibility of CSIRTs. An incident affecting one site may also affect another, and anal-

ysis from one place may help another. To date there are no standards for automated 

information sharing between CSIRTs, however. Because of trust issues, much sharing 

now takes place informally, by word of mouth, in which one CSIRT member interacts 

with a known colleague at another. That model does not scale to larger scale opera-

tion, nor does it support interchange 
with national and other coordinat-
ing CSIRTs. Information sharing 

is also stymied because of fears of 

competition, negative publicity, and 

regulations.
Determining Incident ScopeThe scope of an incident is rarely obvious at the beginning. It may begin with some-
one’s noticing something irregular. (See the example in Sidebar 10-3 of how a tiny 

irregularity exploded into a major incident.)
Incident response often requires sharing 

information—within an organization, 
with similarly affected ones, and with 

national officials.
SIDEBAR 10-3  
Incorrect Account Balance Leads 
to IntruderIn 1986 Cliff Stoll was working as an astronomer at Lawrence Berkeley 
Laboratory when he noticed the amounts for computer accounts he man-

aged did not add up properly. Although the mismatch was small, Stoll was 

unwilling just to dismiss it as an unfathomable computer error. Someone 
(continues)