808 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographyassume there are only four directional orientations (by rounding each actual orientation to the nearest 90°). We can denote these four orientations with four symbols, 
, ,  , and . It is possible to distinguish between a  and 
 photon with high certainty. 
However, the 
 and 
 photons sometimes appear as 
 or 
. Similarly, it is pos-
sible to distinguish between and 
, but sometimes 
 and 
 will be recognized as
  or . Fortunately, those shortcomings actually provide some of the confusion of the 
cryptographic algorithm.A polarizing filter
 is a device or procedure that accepts any photons as input but 
produces only certain kinds of photons as output. There are two types of photon fil-

ters:  and 
. A  filter correctly discriminates between 
 and 
 photons but has a 
50 percent chance of also counting an or 
 as a 
 or an 
; conversely, a 
 filter 
distinguishes between and 
 but may also accept half of the 
 and 
 photons. 
Think of a  filter as a narrow horizontal slit through which a 
 photon can slide 
easily, but an 
 will always be blocked. Sometimes (perhaps half the time), a 
 or 
  photon vibrates in a way to sneak through the slit also. A 
 filter is analogously like 
a vertical slit.
Photon ReceptionQuantum cryptography operates by sending a stream of photons from sender to receiver. 

The sender uses one of the polarizing filters to control which kind of photon is sent. The 

receiver uses either filter and records the orientation of the photon received. It does not 

matter if the receiver chooses the same filter the sender did; what matters is whether the 

receiver happened by chance to choose the same type as did the sender.
The most important property of quantum cryptography is that no one can eavesdrop 
on a communication without affecting the communication. With a little simple error 

detection coding, the sender and receiver can easily determine the presence of an eaves-

dropper. Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle says that we cannot know both the speed 

and location of a particle at any given time; once we measure the speed, the location 

has already changed, and once we measure the location, the speed has already changed. 
Because of this principle, when we measure any property of a particle, it affects other 

properties. So, for example, measuring the orientation of a photon affects the photon. 

A horizontal slit filter blocks all 
 and half of the
 and 
 photons, so it affects the 
photon stream coming through. The sender knows what was sent, the receiver knows 

what was received, but an eavesdropper will alter the photon stream so dramatically that 

sender and receiver can easily determine someone is listening. 
Let us see how this unusual approach can be used for cryptography.
Cryptography with PhotonsThe cryptographic algorithm is inefficient, in that more than twice the bits transmitted 

are not used in cryptography. The bits being transmitted are photons which, fortunately, 

are quite readily available.
