 Section 2.1  Authentication 
65  third factor of authentication, something you 
have, offers strengths and weaknesses 
different from the other two factors.
Authentication Based on Tokens: Something You Have
Something you have means that you have a physical object in your possession. One 

physical authenticator with which you are probably familiar is a key. When you put 

your key in your lock, the ridges in the key interact with pins in the lock to let the 

mechanism turn. In a sense the lock authenticates you for authorized entry because you 
possess an appropriate key. Of course, you can lose your key or duplicate it and give the 

duplicate to someone else, so the authentication is not perfect. But it is precise: Only 
your key works, and your key works only your lock. (For this example, we intentionally 

ignore master keys.)
SIDEBAR 2-12 Using Cookies for Authentication
On the web, cookies are often used for authentication. A cookie is a pair of 
data items sent to the web browser by the visited website. The data items 

consist of a key and a value, designed to represent the current state of a 

session between a visiting user and the visited website. Once the cookie is 
placed on the user’s system (usually in a directory with other cookies), the 

browser continues to use it for subsequent interaction between the user and 

that website. Each cookie is supposed to have an expiration date, but that 
date can be far in the future, and it can be modified later or even ignored.
For example, The Wall Street Journal
’s website, wsj.com, creates a 
cookie when a user first logs in. In subsequent transactions, the cookie acts 
as an identifier; the user no longer needs a password to access that site. 

(Other sites use the same or a similar approach.)
Users must be protected from exposure and forgery. That is, users 
may not want the rest of the world to know what sites they have visited. 

Neither will they want someone to examine information or buy merchandise 

online by impersonation and fraud. And furthermore, on a shared computer, 

one user can act as someone else if the receiving site uses a cookie to per-

form automatic authentication.
Sit and Fu [SIT01] point out that cookies were not designed for protec-
tion. There is no way to establish or confirm a cookie’s integrity, and not all 

sites encrypt the information in their cookies. 
Sit and Fu also point out that a server’s operating system must be 
particularly vigilant to protect against eavesdropping: “Most [web traffic] 

exchanges do not use [encryption] to protect against eavesdropping; any-

one on the network between the two computers can overhear the traffic. 

Unless a server takes strong precautions, an eavesdropper can steal and 

reuse a cookie, impersonating a user indefinitely.” (In Chapter 6 we describe 

how encryption can be used to protect against such eavesdropping.)
