554 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computing2. Determine vulnerabilities
. When considering cloud services, be sure to consider cloud-specific vulnerabilities. These will generally stem from having to access 

the system through an Internet connection, sharing hardware and networks with 

potential adversaries, and trusting a cloud provider. Be sure to consider the flip-

side as well: Not moving to the cloud may mean decreased availability, lower-

quality staff that administers systems, and worse patch management.
3. Estimate likelihood of exploitation.
 Many vulnerabilities will be either more 
or less difficult to exploit in a cloud environment, as well as across different 

cloud service models and providers. Be sure to consider these differences when 

weighing your options.4. Compute expected loss
. Your expected loss will depend on a variety of factors, 
including the consequences of successful attacks and your ability to respond 

to attacks. Consider how the move to the cloud might influence those factors: 

Will a typical cloud provider be able to respond to the attack better than your 

company could? In the case of DDoS, for instance, there’s a good chance the 

answer is yes.5. Survey and select new controls
. What matters most in this step is determining 
what controls the cloud service would need to have in place for your risk to be 

adequately managed. These may also be controls that you put in place to aug-

ment a cloud offering. Do your data need to be encrypted? What logging capa-

bilities will you need from the cloud provider? What about authentication and 

access control options?6. Project savings
. A move to cloud services is often justified by cost savings, but 
sometimes those savings don’t materialize. A company might estimate that they 

will save $1M per year on data center costs, but not realize that side effects of 

the migration will cost them $1.5M in new security controls. When weighing 

your options, try to understand all the costs you can expect to incur.
Whether you are for or against moving to a cloud service, a thorough risk analysis 
will help you carefully consider all options and make a sound, thoughtful argument. Too 

many companies and government agencies have wasted large sums of money or, worse, 

experienced catastrophic security 

breaches because they could not 

find time for this exercise.
Cloud Provider Assessment
Assessing cloud providers is a two-step task: The first step is determining your cloud 

service needs. From a security standpoint, most of your needs will derive directly from 

the risk analysis we discussed in the previous section. The risk analysis results in a list 

of necessary security controls, and those controls will make up the bulk of your cloud 

provider security requirements. While many of the security controls you will need will 

be specific to your system, here are a few categories that commonly appear:
• Authentication, authorization, and access control options
• Encryption capabilities
Moving to a cloud model entails risks that must be accounted for.
