660 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsThe key to coping with such disasters is advance planning and preparation, iden-
tifying activities that will keep a business viable when the computing technology is 

disabled. The steps in business continuity planning are these:
• Assess the business impact of a crisis.
• Develop a strategy to control impact.

• Develop and implement a plan for the strategy
Assess Business ImpactTo assess the impact of a failure on your business, you begin by asking two key  
questions:• What are the 
essential assets? What are the things that if lost will prevent the 
business from doing business? Answers are typically of the form “the network,” 

“the customer reservations database,” or “the system controlling traffic lights.”
• What could 
disrupt use of these assets? The vulnerability is more important 
than the threat agent. For example, whether destroyed by a fire or zapped in an 

electrical storm, the network is nevertheless down. Answers might be “failure,” 

“corrupted,” or “loss of power.”
You probably will find only a handful of key assets when doing this analysis.
Do not overlook people and the things they need for support, such as documen-
tation and communications equipment. Another way to think about your assets is to 

ask yourself, “What is the minimum set of things or activities needed to keep business 

operational, at least to some degree?” If a manual system would compensate for a failed 

computer system, albeit inefficiently, you may want to consider building such a manual 

system as a potential critical asset. Think of the airline unable to assign seats manually 

from a chart of the cabin.Later in this chapter we study risk analysis, a comprehensive way to examine assets, 
vulnerabilities, and controls. For business continuity planning we do not need a full risk 

analysis. Instead, we focus on only those things that are critical to continued operation. 
We also look at larger classes of objects, such as “the network,” whose loss or compro-

mise can have catastrophic effect.
Develop StrategyThe continuity strategy investigates how the key assets can be safeguarded. In some 

cases, a backup copy of data or redundant hardware or an alternative manual process is 

good enough. Sometimes, the most reasonable answer is reduced capacity. For example, 

a planner might conclude that if the call center in London fails, the business can divert 

all calls to Tokyo. Perhaps the staff in Tokyo cannot handle the full load of the London 

traffic; this situation may result in irritated or even lost customers, but at least some 

business can be transacted.
Ideally, you would like to continue business with no loss. But with catastrophic fail-
ures, usually only a portion of the business function can be preserved. In this case, you 
