 Section 13.4  Cyber Warfare 
847  attack: “On the one hand [attacks] may be less powerful than hoped but may also have 
more extensive outcomes arising from the interconnectedness of systems, resulting in 

unwanted damage to perpetrators and their allies. More importantly, there is no strategic 

reason why any aggressor would limit themselves to only one class of weaponry.” 
At the same time, they point to the proliferation of cyber weaponry: “Cyberweapons 
are used individually, in combination and also blended simultaneously with conven-

tional ‘kinetic’ weapons as force multipliers. It is a safe prediction that the use of cyber-

weaponry will shortly become ubiquitous.”
Cyber weapons act like conventional ones: They destroy or disrupt a population’s 
ability to function, weaken the economy, and devastate morale. However, whereas a 

bomb destroying a bridge or factory can lead to a long recovery time, electronic equip-

ment is fungible and easily replaced. Cyber conflict may shut down a network, but 

network connectivity and routing have been designed for resilience, so recovery can be 

reasonably fast. Other aspects of recovery are examined in Sidebar 13-6.
SIDEBAR 13-6 How Long Is a Cyber Response Effective?
A great deal of media attention was given to the Stuxnet attack, and a 
great deal of discussion ensued about how best to defend against such 

attacks. But less attention was paid to the way in which Iran recovered 

from the attack. In early 2011, David Albright, Paul Brannan, and Christina 

Wairond [ALB11] released their analysis of Iran’s recovery efforts. “While 

it has delayed the Iranian centrifuge program at the Natanz plant in 2010 

and contributed to slowing its expansion, it did not stop it or even delay 

the continued buildup of low-enriched uranium,” they noted. Indeed, the 

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) watched the process on video 

cameras installed for monitoring purposes. Hundreds of centrifuges were 

dismantled and discarded, but they were replaced almost immediately by 

new machines. The IAEA found “a feverish—and apparently successful—

effort by Iranian scientists to contain the damage and replace broken parts, 

even while constrained by international sanctions banning Iran from pur-

chasing nuclear equipment.” Indeed, in the aftermath of the attack, Iran 

had “steady or even slightly elevated production rates” at Natanz during 

2010 [WAR11].
Similarly, when Mubarak shut down the Internet in Egypt for five days, 
as described in Sidebar 13-7, the populace communicated by mobile 

phone. In particular, by taking pictures and video with their cell phone 

cameras and then transmitting them through mobile phone technology, 

they kept the wider world apprised of what was happening in their country 

[PRE11].These events suggest that it is important to ask not only whether 
cyber war is effective but also for how long. Many discussions among com-

puter security practitioners focus more on the possibility of attack (is there 

a vulnerability to be exploited?) but not on whether the attack will result in 

sustained damage or disability.
