840 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
examines, and one that the attacker surreptitiously carries away (and perhaps matches 
with a photo taken with a hidden camera). Another way might be social engineering: 

posing as a voting official and asking questions at an “exit interview.” As we have seen, 

we don’t always need fancy technology to construct an effective attack.
Tampering
One way to attack a voting machine is to break in and tamper with its workings. Once 
in, an attacker could reset hardware or change software settings. In September 2010, the 

U.S. Department of Energy’s Argonne National Laboratory investigated how to break 

antitamper seals on voting machines. The results are disheartening: Within 11 minutes, 

almost all of the 244 seals were defeated “by one person, well practiced in the attack, 
working alone, and using only low-tech methods.” Even more expensive seals didn’t 

fare much better. The Argonne report [ARG10] suggests that there are simple coun-

termeasures, derived from doing what we are doing in this book: examining the seals, 

thinking like an attacker, and learning from trying various attacks.
How else might the results be changed? The U.S. presidential vote in 2000 brings 
one way to mind: ballot design. Some ballots are easier to understand than others, and 

ballot design can encourage a voter to think she is voting one way when she is really 

voting another. Placement of names or party affiliation can make a difference; for 

instance, some people are biased toward voting for the person at the top of the ballot, 

so name placement is sometimes randomized to counter that effect. Similarly, places 

like California have very complex ballots because each election can include multiple 

jurisdictions (for example, local government, school board, water district), as well as 

voter initiatives, judicial races, and more. Some researchers suggest that simplifying the 

ballot may address this problem.Interface problems can lead to miscounts in other ways. Some voting machines’ 
interfaces ask the voter to verify the selections before the votes are actually recorded. 

In some instances, voters have walked away from the machines, not realizing that one 

more step is needed before their votes were formally cast. In other cases, sliding a finger 

across the touch-screen causes the machine to crash and reboot [THO08].Many of the attacks presented in this book can be directed at vote-tampering. For 
instance, program flaws may result in changes to vote counts. Chapter 4 introduces 

man-in-the-middle attacks that can intercept a vote, change it, and force a voting 

machine to record a vote different from the one the voter intended, while showing the 

voter an image of the selections the voter believes are being recorded. And, depending 

on the voting process’s architecture, a distributed denial-of-service attack can flood an 

Internet voting server with spurious traffic, preventing even astronauts from being able 

to access a voting application.
Assuring AccuracyHow would you assure the accuracy of a vote? The voting process must be examined 
end to end, to make sure that what the voter intends is what is actually recorded in a 

vote. One mechanism for such assurance is the production of an audit log. Here, some 
