 Section 9.1  Privacy Concepts 
587  9.1 PRIVACY CONCEPTS
In this section we examine privacy, first from its general or common usage and then as 
it applies in technological situations.Aspects of Information PrivacyInformation privacy has three aspects: sensitive data, affected parties, and controlled 

disclosure. In fact, these aspects are similar to the three elements of access control from 

Chapter 2: subject, object, and access rights. We examine these three in turn.
Controlled Disclosure
What is privacy? A good working definition is that privacy is the right to control who 
knows certain aspects about you, your communications, and your activities. In other 

words, you voluntarily choose who can know which things about you. People may ask 

you for your telephone number: your auto mechanic, a shop clerk, your tax authority, a 

new business contact, or a new friend. In each case, you consider why the person wants 

the number and then decide whether 
to give it out. But the key point is 

that you decide. So privacy is some-
thing over which you can have con-

siderable influence.You do not have complete control, however. Once you give your number to a person 
or a system, your control is diminished because it depends in part on what the person 
or system does with that information. In giving out your number, you are transferring 

or ceding authority and control to someone or something else. You may say “don’t give 

my number to anyone else,” “use discretion,” or “I am sensitive about my privacy,” but 

you do not control the other person or system. You have to trust the person or system to 

comply with your wishes, whether you state those wishes explicitly or not. This prob-

lem is similar to the propagation problem of computer security: Anyone who has access 

to an object can copy, transfer, or propagate that object or its content to others without 

restriction. And even if you specify that the object should be deleted or destroyed after 

a certain period of time, you have no way to verify that the system or person really does 

destroy the content.
Sensitive DataSomeone asks you for your shoe size. You might answer, “I’m a very private person and 
cannot imagine why you would want to know such an intimate detail” or you could say 

“10C”; some people find that data item more sensitive than others. Some information 

is usually considered sensitive, such as financial status, certain health data, unsavory 

events in someone’s past, and the like. So if you learn something you consider sensitive 

about someone, you are likely to keep it quiet, unless there is a compelling argument 

for revealing it. For example, in many places, healthcare professionals (interested in 

disease identification, containment, and prevention) are required to report instances of 

highly communicable or deadly diseases, even if the stricken person does not want that 
Privacy is the right to control who 

knows certain things about you.