124 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
The Internet is a large federation of networks for interpersonal, intercompany, inter-
organizational, and international (as well as intracompany, intraorganizational, and 

intranational) communication. It is not a part of any government, nor is it a privately 

owned company. It is governed by a board called the Internet Society. The Internet Soci-

ety has power only because its members, the governments and companies that make up 

the Internet, agree to work together. But there really is no “top” for the Internet. Dif-

ferent companies, such as C&W HKT, SecureNet, VeriSign, Baltimore Technologies, 

Deutsche Telecom, Societá Interbancaria per l’Automatzione di Milano, Entrust, and 

Certiposte are root certification authorities, which means each is a highest authority 

that signs certificates. So, instead of one root and one top, there are many roots, largely 

structured around national boundaries.Distributing Keys and CertificatesEarlier in this chapter we introduced several approaches to key distribution, ranging 
from direct exchange to distribution through a central distribution facility to certified 

advance distribution. But no matter what approach is taken to key distribution, each 

has its advantages and disadvantages. Points to keep in mind about any key distribution 

protocol include the following:
• What operational restrictions are there? For example, does the protocol require a 
continuously available facility, such as the key distribution center?
• What trust requirements are there? Who and what entities must be trusted to act 
properly?• What is the protection against failure? Can an outsider impersonate any of the 
entities in the protocol and subvert security? Can any party of the protocol cheat 

without detection?• How efficient is the protocol? A protocol requiring several steps to establish an 
encryption key that will be used many times is one thing; it is quite another to go 

through several time-consuming steps for a one-time use.
• How easy is the protocol to implement? Notice that complexity in computer 
implementation may be different from manual use.
Digital Signatures—All the Pieces
Putting these pieces together we can now outline a complete digital signature scheme. 

Assume user S wants to apply a digital signature to a file (or other data object), meeting 

the four objectives of a digital signature: unforgeable, authentic, unalterable, and not 

reusable.A digital signature
 consists of• a file
• demonstration that the file has not been altered

• indication of who applied the signature

• validation that the signature is authentic, that is, that it belongs to the signer

• connection of the signature to the file
