 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
95  DES: The Data Encryption Standard
The Data Encryption Standard (DES) [NBS77], a system developed for the U.S. gov-
ernment, was intended for use by the general public. Standards organizations have offi-

cially accepted it as a cryptographic standard both in the United States and abroad. 

Moreover, many hardware and software systems have been designed with DES. For 

many years it was the algorithm of choice for protecting financial, personal, and corpo-

rate data; however, researchers increasingly questioned its adequacy as it aged.
Overview of the DES AlgorithmThe DES algorithm [NBS77] was developed in the 1970s by IBM for the U.S. National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), then called the National Bureau of Stan-

dards (NBS). DES is a careful and complex combination of two fundamental building 

blocks of encryption: substitution and transposition. The algorithm derives its strength 

from repeated application of these two techniques, one on top of the other, for a total of 

16 cycles. The sheer complexity of tracing a single bit through 16 iterations of substitu-

tions and transpositions has so far stopped researchers in the public from identifying 

more than a handful of general properties of the algorithm.TABLE 2-10 
Stream and Block Encryption Algorithms
StreamBlock
Advantages
•  Speed of transformation. 
Because each symbol is encrypted without 
regard for any other plaintext symbols, 

each symbol can be encrypted as 
soon as it is read. Thus, the time to 

encrypt a symbol depends only on the 
encryption algorithm itself, not on the 
time it takes to receive more plaintext.
•  Low error propagation. 
Because each symbol is separately encoded, an error 
in the encryption process affects only 

that character.
•  High diffusion.
 Information from the plaintext is diffused into several 

ciphertext symbols. One ciphertext 

block may depend on several plaintext 

letters.•  Immunity to insertion of symbol. 
Because blocks of symbols are 
enciphered, it is impossible to insert 
a single symbol into one block. The 

length of the block would then be 

incorrect, and the decipherment would 

quickly reveal the insertion.
Disadvantages
•  Low diffusion. 
Each symbol is separately enciphered. Therefore, 

all the information of that symbol is 
contained in one symbol of ciphertext.
•  Susceptibility to malicious insertions and modifications. 
Because each symbol is separately enciphered, an 
active interceptor who has broken the 

code can splice pieces of previous 

messages and transmit a spurious new 

message that may look authentic.•  Slowness of encryption. 
The person or machine doing the block ciphering 
must wait until an entire block of 

plaintext symbols has been received 

before starting the encryption process.•  Padding. 
A final short block must be 
filled with irrelevant data to make a 

full-sized block.•  Error propagation. 
An error will affect the transformation of all other 

characters in the same block.