842 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
In this section, we deviate from our consideration of attacks to examine these impor-
tant questions. We begin by looking at the definition of cyber warfare: What are we 

protecting, and what acts are considered acts of war? We follow the definition with sev-

eral recent examples of purported cyber warfare activities worldwide. Next, we discuss 

some of the critical issues involved in using cyber warfare as a national tool. Finally, 

we pose questions for you to consider and debate about the policy, legal, and ethical 

implications of conducting cyber warfare.
What Is Cyber Warfare?
We begin our consideration of cyber warfare by asking what we are protecting. The U.S. 

Department of Defense defines cyberspace as “A global domain within the information 

environment consisting of the interdependent network of information technology infra-

structures, including the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and 

embedded processors and controllers.” [DOD08] Thus, the Defense Department recog-

nizes a broad cyber infrastructure. But what exactly is an act of cyber war, and how does 

cyber warfare differ from cybercrime or cyber terrorism? 
Definition of Cyber Warfare
The definition of cyber warfare is less settled than you would think. Libicki [LIB09] 
distinguishes between operational and strategic cyber warfare: The former uses cyber 

attacks to support war fighting, while the latter uses cyber attacks to support state pol-

icy. By Libicki’s definition, cyber espionage can be an act of cyber warfare.
However, others suggest that cyber warfare is more like other kinds of warfare. For 
example, Eneken Tikk, head of the legal and policy branch of Estonia’s Cooperative 

Cyber Defense Center of Excellence, says that a cyber war causes “the same type of 

destruction as the traditional military, with military force as an appropriate response.” 

[GRO10] 
Anup Ghosh [GHO11] has a more nuanced view: He distinguishes cybercrime, cyber 
espionage, and cyber warfare. He says that cybercrimes are committed when illegal cyber-

based actions are aimed at monetary gain. Cyber espionage is different. “[Today’s] cyber 

intrusions are not bringing down 

the network, destroying the power 

grid, the banking system, imploding 
chemical factories, bringing down 

airplanes, or destroying common 

governmental functions. Instead 

they are doing reconnaissance, col-

lecting data, and exfiltrating the data 

through a series of network relays.”
What is left is what is often called special operations. As Ghosh says, “Occasionally 
we’ll see an outbreak where machines get corrupted, networks go down, perpetrators 

get caught red-handed, and we may even strike back. Is this warfare? It certainly seems 

to fit the bill. . . . The perpetrators may be well-trained cyber warriors with specific 
Cyber warfare is larger than cyber 

mischief, cybercrime, cyber espionage, 

cyber terrorism, or cyber attack. 

“Warfare” is a term typically reserved 

for active conflict between nation 
states.