72 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
of mechanisms are imperfect. Often the user interface seems simple and foolproof 
(what could be easier than laying a finger on a glass plate?), but as we have described, 

underneath that simplicity lies uncertainty, ambiguity, and vulnerability. Nevertheless, 

in this section you have seen types and examples so that when you develop systems and 

applications requiring authentication, you will be able to draw on this background to 

pick an approach that achieves your security needs.
2.2 ACCESS CONTROL
In this section we discuss how to protect general objects, such as files, tables, access to 

hardware devices or network connections, and other resources. In general, we want a 

flexible structure, so that certain users can use a resource in one way (for example, read-

only), others in a different way (for example, allowing modification), and still others not 

at all. We want techniques that are robust, easy to use, and efficient.
We start with the basic access control paradigm, articulated by Scott Graham and 
Peter Denning [GRA72]: A subject is permitted to access an object in a particular mode, 

and only such authorized accesses are allowed.
• Subjects are human users, often represented by surrogate programs running on 
behalf of the users. • Objects are things on which an action can be performed: Files, tables, programs, 
memory objects, hardware devices, strings, data fields, network connections, 

and processors are examples of objects. So too are users, or rather programs or 

processes representing users, because the operating system (a program repre-
senting the system administrator) can act on a user, for example, allowing a user 

to execute a program, halting a user, or assigning privileges to a user. 
• Access modes are any controllable actions of subjects on objects, including, but 
not limited to, read, write, modify, delete, execute, create, destroy, copy, export, 

import, and so forth.Effective separation will keep unauthorized subjects from unauthorized access to 
objects, but the separation gap must 

be crossed for authorized subjects 

and modes. In this section we con-
sider ways to allow all and only 

authorized accesses.Access PoliciesAccess control is a mechanical process, easily implemented by a table and computer 
process: A given subject either can or cannot access a particular object in a specified 

way. Underlying the straightforward decision is a complex and nuanced decision of 

which accesses should be allowed; these decisions are based on a formal or informal 

security policy.
Access control: limiting who can access 

what in what ways