 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
395  At one point the supplicant (client) is required to authenticate to the access point, but 
the supplicant has no basis for assurance that the access point is legitimate, that is, that 

a malicious party is not sending signals pretending to be an access point. Thus, the sup-

plicant can be forced to reveal authentication data to an unauthorized third party.
Recall our discussion in Chapter 3 of the importance of mutual suspicion in pro-grams: Each routine needs to suspect that all other routines with which it interacts might 
be faulty or hostile. The posited attack shows an example of failing to exercise mutual 

suspicion.Exhaustive Key Search A known limitation of cryptography is that the entire space of possible cryptographic 

keys can be searched to find the correct one. The countermeasure to this attack is to use 

a long key, so that the number of keys required to be searched is prohibitive. The 56-bit 

DES key has been shown vulnerable to an adversary with significant computing power, 

and a panel of cryptographers in 1996 [BLA96] advised that keys be of 100 bits or more 

for high security. This advice depends on the key being truly random; as with using 

aaaaaa as a password, using any predictable pattern number weakens the key. Because 
key selection is so critical, the key management of WPA has come under scrutiny. WPA 

uses a 256-bit base key, which seems long enough to be secure.
To establish a shared key between the access point and the device, the administrator 
has to enter a very large number correctly twice, once for the access point and once for 

the device. To simplify the entry of a large number, many WPA implementations allow 

a passphrase, a string of characters, which are then converted to a number. Moskowitz 

[MOS03] observes that people tend not to choose character strings completely at ran-

dom, and thus guessing attacks with popular strings succeed faster than full exhaustive 

searches. Moskowitz notes, however, that the algorithm by which WPA converts a pass-

phrase into an encryption key is (computer) time consuming, which reduces the ability 

of an attacker to test a large number of potential passphrases as keys.
A similar attack depends on people’s having chosen short passphrases, because an 
exhaustive attack will progress in an orderly manner through all one-character potential 

passphrases, then two characters, and so forth.
Finally, in 2008, researchers Martin Beck and Erik Tews [BEC08] presented an 
attack against a feature of WEP that was carried over into WPA (but not WPA2). The 

attack undermines the integrity of encrypted content. We have already described the 

insecurity of the RC4 algorithm used by WEP, applying either a 40- or 104-bit key, and 

the Tews–Beck attack finds another weakness there. The researchers also attack WPA 

with their technique, which they call chopchop because they chop out and replace one 

byte of a block and see the change in the block’s integrity. By repeatedly chopping 

and substituting, they infer the integrity key. The attack undermines the original WPA 

because it uses an integrity mechanism called TKIP (Temporal Key Integrity Protocol) 

designed to be compatible with WEP. The sophisticated attack is most effective against 

short data blocks of which the attacker knows some of the underlying plaintext data; 

the result of the attack enables the attacker to substitute some packets with other data 

without being detected. Ohigashi and Morii [OHI09] improved upon the technique by 

making it faster.
