38 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
2.1 AUTHENTICATION
Your neighbor recognizes you, sees you frequently, and knows you are someone who 
should be going into your home. Your neighbor can also notice someone different, 

especially if that person is doing something suspicious, such as snooping around your 
doorway, peering up and down the walk, or picking up a heavy stone. Coupling these 

suspicious events with hearing the sound of breaking glass, your neighbor might even 

call the police.Computers have replaced many face-to-face interactions with electronic ones. With 
no vigilant neighbor to recognize that something is awry, people need other mecha-

nisms to separate authorized from unauthorized parties. For this reason, the basis of 

computer security is controlled access: 
someone is authorized to take 
some action
 on 
something. We examine access control later in this chapter. But for access control to 
work, we need to be sure who the “someone” is. In this section we introduce authentica-

tion, the process of ascertaining or confirming an identity.
A computer system does not have the cues we do with face-to-face communication 
that let us recognize our friends. Instead computers depend on data to recognize others. 
Determining who a person really is consists of two separate steps:
• Identification
 is the act of 
asserting who a person is.• Authentication
 is the act of 
proving that asserted iden-

tity: that the person is who 

she says she is.We have phrased these steps from the perspective of a person seeking to be recog-
nized, using the term “person” for simplicity. In fact, such recognition occurs between 

people, computer processes (executing programs), network connections, devices, and 

similar active entities. In security, all these entities are called 
subjects.The two concepts of identification and authentication are easily and often confused. 
Identities, like names, are often well known, public, and not protected. On the other 

hand, authentication is necessarily protected. If someone’s identity is public, anyone 

can claim to be that person. What separates the pretenders from the real person is proof 

by authentication.Identification Versus Authentication
Identities are often well known, predictable, or guessable. If you send email to someone, 

you implicitly send along your email account ID so the other person can reply to you. In 
an online discussion you may post comments under a screen name as a way of linking 

your various postings. Your bank account number is printed on checks you write; your 

debit card account number is shown on your card, and so on. In each of these cases you 

reveal a part of your identity. Notice that your identity is more than just your name: Your 

bank account number, debit card number, email address, and other things are ways by 

which people and processes identify you.Identification is asserting who a 
person is. Authentication is proving that asserted 
identity.
