400 Chapter 6  
Networksfailure can be sporadic, meaning that it goes away or corrects itself spontaneously, or 
the failure can be permanent, as from a faulty component. 
These, then, are the three root threats to availability:
• insufficient capacity; overload
• blocked access

• unresponsive component
The attacker will try to actualize any of these threat types by exploiting vulnerabili-
ties against them. In the next section we examine some of these potential vulnerabilities. 

In Sidebar 6-17 we describe an incident that resulted from a combination of factors—

none malicious—including age of components, antiquated network design, and faulty 

communications protocols.SIDEBAR 6-16  
State of Virginia Database Held 
for RansomState officials in Virginia received a ransom note in May 2009 demanding 
$10 million for release of a state database of 8.3 million records of drug 

prescriptions for state residents. The database held copies of prescriptions 

for Federal controlled substances filled since 2003.
Ransom note:ATTENTION VIRGINIA
I have your s[censored]! In *my* possession, right now, are 8,257,378 patient 
records and a total of 35,548,087 prescriptions. Also, I made an encrypted 

backup and deleted the original. Unfortunately for Virginia, their backups seem 

to have gone missing, too. Uhoh :(For $10 million, I will gladly send along the password. You have 7 days to 
decide. If by the end of 7 days, you decide not to pony up, I’ll go ahead and 
put this baby out on the market and accept the highest bid. Now I don’t know 

what all this [censored] is worth or who would pay for it, but I’m bettin’ someone 

will. Hell, if I can’t move the prescription data at the very least I can find a buyer 

for the personal data (name, age, address, social security #, driver’s license #). 

(Brian Krebs, 
Washington Post 
Security Fix blog, 4 May 2009)Although the attacker alleged that he had deleted the original, made one encrypted backup copy, and deleted all other backups, state officials 

were able to restore the database from backup copies and could access it 

with no difficulty. Sandra Whitley Ryals, director of the Virginia Department 

of Health Professions stated, “We are satisfied that all data was properly 

backed up and that these backup files have been secured.” (WHSV TV, 

Richmond, VA, from WHSV.com, 6 May 2009) Thus, the ransom demand 

seems to have been a hoax. Nevertheless, removing sensitive data and 

holding it for ransom is a potentially effective means to block access.
