 Section 7.4  Database Disclosure 
527  Recent interest in data mining has raised concern again about aggregation. 
Data 
mining is the process of sifting through multiple databases and correlating multiple 
data elements to find useful information. Marketing companies use data mining exten-

sively to find consumers likely to buy a product. 
Aggregation was of interest to 
database security researchers at the 
same time as was inference. As we 

have seen, some approaches to infer-

ence have proved useful and are cur-

rently being used. But there have 

been few proposals for countering 

aggregation.
Analysis on DataAs we just described, the attacker has time and computing power to analyze data. Cor-
relating seemingly unrelated bits of information can, as we showed, help build a larger 

picture. Even supposedly anonymized data can be revealing, as described in Sidebar 7-4.
Hidden Data AttributesA picture is just a picture and a document is just a document, right? Not quite, in the digital age. Objects such as pictures, music files, and documents are actually complex 
SIDEBAR 7-4 Who Is Number 4417749?
In a move to allow researchers a large, actual database of queries to 
analyze, AOL decided in 2006 to release three months’ worth of search 

queries from over 650,000 users. Although the searchers’ identities were 

not revealed, AOL did assign each searcher a unique numeric ID so that 

researchers could relate multiple queries from the same person.
As reported in the 
New York Times 
[BAR06], in a short time, bloggers 
inferred that number 4417749 was a woman, Thelma Arnold, who lived in 

a small town in Georgia. From her queries researchers inferred that she 

was looking for a landscaper, kept a dog, and was interested in travelling 

to Italy. What gave away her full identity was that she searched for several 

people with the surname Arnold and businesses in the Shadow Lake subdi-

vision of Gwinett County, Georgia. Official records showed only one person 

with the surname Arnold in that county.
Researchers also identified several other individuals from the 
searches before AOL took the database offline. As this example shows, 

even anonymized data can reveal true identities.
Using a different form of correlation, Sweeney [SWE04] reports on a 
project to find lists of people’s names. Correlating names across lists gener-

ated a profile of the names that match: places they live, work, or go to school, 

organizations to which they belong, and causes they support. Combinations of 

individual data items can yield complex, multifaceted biographical sketches.Aggregation is nearly impossible for a 
database management system to control 

because combining the data can occur 
outside the system, even by multiple 
colluding users.