 Section 3.1  Unintentional (Nonmalicious) Programming Oversights 
157  Countermeasures
Fortunately, there are ways to prevent exploitation of the time lag, again depending on 
our security tool, access control. Critical parameters are not exposed during any loss 

of control. The access-checking software must own the request data until the requested 

action is complete. Another protection technique is to ensure serial integrity, that is, to 

allow no interruption (loss of control) during the validation. Or the validation routine 

can initially copy data from the user’s space to the routine’s area—out of the user’s 

reach—and perform validation checks on the copy. Finally, the validation routine can 

seal the request data to detect modification. Really, all these protection methods are 

expansions on the tamperproof criterion for a reference monitor: Data on which the 

access control decision is based and the result of the decision must be outside the 

domain of the program whose access is being controlled.Undocumented Access PointNext we describe a common programming situation. During program development and 

testing, the programmer needs a way to access the internals of a module. Perhaps a 

result is not being computed correctly so the programmer wants a way to interrogate 

data values during execution. Maybe flow of control is not proceeding as it should and 

the programmer needs to feed test values into a routine. It could be that the programmer 

wants a special debug mode to test conditions. For whatever reason the programmer 

creates an undocumented entry point or execution mode.
These situations are understandable during program development. Sometimes, how-
ever, the programmer forgets to remove these entry points when the program moves 

from development to product. Or the programmer decides to leave them in to facilitate 

program maintenance later; the programmer may believe that nobody will find the spe-

cial entry. Programmers can be naïve, because if there is a hole, someone is likely to 

find it. See Sidebar 3-4 for a description of an especially intricate backdoor.
SIDEBAR 3-4 Oh Look: The Easter Bunny!
Microsoft’s Excel spreadsheet program, in an old version, Excel 97, had the 
following feature.
• Open a new worksheet
• Press F5

• Type X97:L97 and press Enter

• Press Tab

• Hold <Ctrl-Shift> and click the Chart Wizard
A user who did that suddenly found that the spreadsheet disappeared 
and the screen filled with the image of an airplane cockpit! Using the arrow 

keys, the user could fly a simulated plane through space. With a few more 
(continues)