762 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsPolitically Inspired Attacks
Finally, consider Goli’s interfering with operation of web sites whose actions she 
opposes. We have purposely phrased the issue in a situation that arouses perhaps only 

a few gourmands and pâtissiers. We can dismiss the interest of the butter fans as an 

insignificant minority on an insignificant issue. But you can certainly think of many 

other issues that have brought on wars. (See Dorothy Denning’s excellent article on 

cybercriminals [DEN99a] for real examples of politically motivated computer activity.)
The ethical issues abound in this scenario. Some people will see the (butter) issue as 
one of inherent good, but is butter use one of the fundamental good principles, such as 

honesty or fairness or not doing harm to others? Is there universal agreement that but-

ter use is good? Probably there will be a division of the world into the butter advocates 

(x%), the unrestricted pastry advocates (
y%), and those who do not take a position (
z%). By how much does 
x have to exceed 
y for Goli’s actions to be acceptable? What if the 
value of 
z is large? Greatest good for the greatest number requires a balance among 
these three percentages and some measure of benefit or harm.
Is butter use so patently good that it justifies harm to those who disagree? Who is 
helped and who suffers? Is the world helped if only good, but more expensive, pastries 

are available, so poor people can no longer afford pastry? Suppose we could determine 

that 99.9 percent of people in the world agreed that butter use was a good thing. Would 

that preponderance justify overriding the interests of the other 0.1 percent?
Situation IX: True Representation
This story is based on a true experiment run by researchers at Cornell University and 

Facebook. It raises questions about whether a web entity is obligated to present the 

truth, but it also raises concerns for experiments on human subjects.
more visible is “presumptuous and reprehensible.” To enter either a home 
or a computer system in an unauthorized way, even with benign intent, can 

lead to unintended consequences. “Many systems have been damaged 

accidentally by ignorant (or careless) intruders.”
We do not accept the argument that hackers make good security 
experts. There are two components to being a good security professional: 

knowledge and credibility. Diligent explorers, who may experiment with 

computer breaking in a benign setting like a closed laboratory network, can 

learn just as much about finding and exploiting vulnerabilities as a hacker. 

The key differentiator is trust. If you hire a hacker you will always have a 

nagging fear that your expert is gathering data to attack you or someone 

else. Comparing two otherwise equal candidates for a position, you choose 
the one with the lesser risk. To us, the hacker-turned-consultant is seeking 

to capitalize on a history of unethical behavior. See [PFL06b] for a longer 

discussion.SIDEBAR 11-3 Continued