694 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentsis a possible point of emanation. Furthermore, continuous metal pathways, such as 
water pipes or heating ducts, act as antennas to convey the emanations away from their 

source.Emanations can also be designed in such a way that they cannot be retrieved. This 
process is similar to generating noise in an attempt to jam or block a radio signal. With 

this approach, the emanations of a piece of equipment must be modified by addition of 

spurious signals. Additional processors are added to Tempest equipment specifically to 

generate signals that fool an interceptor. The exact Tempest modification methods are 

classified.
As might be expected, Tempest-enclosed components are larger and heavier than 
their unprotected counterparts. Tempest testing is a rigorous program of the U.S. 

Department of Defense. Once a product has been approved, even a minor design modi-

fication, such as changing from one manufacturer’s power supply to an equivalent one 

from another manufacturer, invalidates the Tempest approval. Therefore, these com-

ponents are costly, ranging in price from 10 percent to 300 percent more than similar 

non-Tempest products. They are most appropriate in situations in which the data to be 

confined are of great value, such as top-level government information. Other groups 

with less dramatic needs can use other less rigorous shielding.Contingency PlanningThe key to successful recovery is adequate preparation. Seldom does a crisis destroy 

irreplaceable equipment; most computing systems—personal computers to main-

frames—are standard, off-the-shelf systems that can easily be replaced. Data and 

locally developed programs are more vulnerable because they cannot quickly be substi-

tuted from another source. Let us look more closely at what to do after a crisis occurs.BackupIn many computing systems, some data items change frequently, whereas others sel-
dom change. For example, a database of bank account balances changes daily, but a 

file of depositors’ names and addresses changes much less often. Also the number of 

changes in a given period of time is different for these two files. These variations in 

number and extent of change relate 

to the amount of data necessary to 

reconstruct these files in the event 

of a loss.A backup is a copy of all or a part of a file to assist in reestablishing a lost file. In 
professional computing systems, periodic backups are usually performed automatically, 

often at night when system usage is low. But, as Sidebar 10-9 explains, the cost of 

backups can be significant for some businesses. Everything on the system is copied, 

including system files, user files, scratch files, and directories, so that the system can be 

regenerated after a crisis. This type of backup is called a complete backup. Complete 

backups are done at regular intervals, usually weekly or daily, depending on the critical-

ity of the information or service provided by the system.
Backup permits recovery from loss or 

failure of a computing device.
