758 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsAt this point, here are some of the ethical issues involved.
• Is a programmer responsible for the programs he or she writes? Is a programmer 
responsible for the results of those programs? (In contemplating this question, 
suppose the program were to adjust dosage in a computer-controlled medical 

application, and Ed’s request were for a way to override the program controls 

to cause a lethal dosage. Would Alicia then be responsible for the results of the 

program?)• Is a programmer merely an employee who follows orders (assigned tasks) 
unthinkingly?• What degree of personal risk (such as possible firing) is an employee obliged to 
accept for opposing an action he or she thinks is improper?• Would a program to manipulate the books as described here ever be justified? If 
so, in what circumstances would it be justified?
• What kinds of controls can be placed on such programs to make them accept-
able? What are some ways that a manager could legitimately ask an employee to 

write a program like this?
• Would the ethical issues in this situation be changed if Alicia designed and 
wrote this program herself?AnalysisThe act-deontologist would say that truth is good. Therefore, if Alicia thought the pur-
pose of the program was to deceive, writing it would not be a good act. (If the pur-

pose were for learning or to be able to admire beautiful code, then writing it might be 
justifiable.)
A more useful analysis is from the perspective of the utilitarian. To Alicia, writing 
the program brings possible harm for being an accomplice to fraud, with the gain of 

having cooperated with her manager. She has a possible item with which to blackmail 

Ed, but Ed might also turn on her and say the program was her idea. On balance, this 

option seems to have a strong negative slant.
By not writing the program her possible harm is being fired. However, she has a 
potential gain by being able to “blow the whistle” on Ed. This option does not seem 

to bring her much good, either. But fraudulent acts have negative consequences for the 

stockholders, the banks, and other innocent employees. Not writing the program brings 

only personal harm to Alicia, which is similar to the harm described earlier. Thus, it 

seems as if not writing the program is the more positive option.
There is another possibility. The program may 
not be for fraudulent purposes. If so, 
then there is no ethical conflict. Therefore, Alicia might try to determine whether Ed’s 

motives are fraudulent.
Situation VII: Accuracy of InformationFor our next problem, we consider responsibility for accuracy or integrity of infor-

mation. Again, this is an issue addressed 
by database management systems and other 
