 Section 1.7  What’s Next? 
33  Chapter 5 covers operating systems, continuing our path of moving away from 
things the user can see and affect directly. We see what protections operating systems 

can provide to users’ programs and data, most often against attacks on confidentiality 

or integrity. We also see how the strength of operating systems can be undermined by 

attacks, called rootkits, that directly target operating systems and render them unable to 

protect themselves or their users.
In Chapter 6 we return to networks, this time looking at the whole network and its 
impact on users’ abilities to communicate data securely across the network. We also 

study a type of attack called denial of service, just what its name implies, that is the first 

major example of a failure of availability.
We consider data, databases, and data mining in Chapter 7. The interesting cases 
involve large databases in which confidentiality of individuals’ private data is an objec-

tive. Integrity of the data in the databases is also a significant concern.
In Chapter 8 we move even further from the individual user and study cloud com-
puting, a technology becoming quite popular. Companies are finding it convenient and 

cost effective to store data “in the cloud,” and individuals are doing the same to have 

shared access to things such as music and photos. There are security risks involved in 

this movement, however.
You may have noticed our structure: We organize our presentation from the user out-
ward through programs, browsers, operating systems, networks, and the cloud, a pro-

gression from close to distant. In Chapter 9 we return to the user for a different reason: 

We consider privacy, a property closely related to confidentiality. Our treatment here is 

independent of where the data are: on an individual computer, a network, or a database. 

Privacy is a property we as humans deserve, and computer security can help preserve it, 

as we present in that chapter.
In Chapter 10 we look at several topics of management of computing as related 
to security. Security incidents occur, and computing installations need to be ready to 

respond, whether the cause is a hacker attack, software catastrophe, or fire. Managers 

also have to decide what controls to employ, because countermeasures cost money that 

must be spent wisely. Computer security protection is hard to evaluate: When it works 

you do not know it does. Performing risk analysis and building a case for security are 

important management tasks.Some security protections are beyond the scope an individual can address. Organized 
crime from foreign countries is something governments must deal with, through a legal 

system. In Chapter 11 we consider laws affecting computer security. We also look at 

ethical standards, what is “right” in computing.In Chapter 12 we return to cryptography, which we introduced in Chapter 2. Cryp-
tography merits courses and textbooks of its own, and the topic is detailed enough that 

most of the real work in the field is done at the graduate level and beyond. We use 

Chapter 2 to introduce the concepts enough to be able to apply them. In Chapter 12 we 
expand upon that introduction and peek at some of the formal and mathematical under-

pinnings of cryptography.
Finally, in Chapter 13 we raise four topic areas. These are domains with an important 
need for computer security, although the areas are evolving so rapidly that computer 
