420 Chapter 6  
Networksultimately causes a system crash, thus denying service, or at least disrupting it. As we 
describe later in this chapter, exploiting a vulnerability is often a first step in an attacker’s 

commandeering control of a computer that is then conscripted into the attacker’s army.
Physical DisconnectionFinally, we consider the last of our causes of denial of service: physical failures. A 

network consists of appliances, connectors, and transmission media, any of which can 

fail. A broken cable, faulty circuit board, or malfunctioning switch or router can cause 

a denial of service just as harmful as a hacker attack. And just as the attacker strikes 

without warning and often without obvious cause, hardware failures are unanticipated.
Transmission Failure
Communications fail for many reasons. For instance, a line is cut. Or network noise 
makes a packet unrecognizable or undeliverable. A machine along the transmission path 

fails for hardware or software reasons. A device is removed from service for repair or 

testing. A device is saturated and rejects incoming data until it can clear its overload. 

Many of these problems are temporary or automatically fixed (circumvented) in major 

networks, including the Internet.
However, some failures cannot be easily repaired. A break in the single communica-
tions line to your computer (for example, from the network to your network interface 

card or the telephone line to your modem) can be fixed only by establishment of an 

alternative link or repair of the damaged one. The network administrator will say “ser-

vice to the rest of the network was unaffected,” but that is of little consolation to you.
Component Failure
Components, for example, routers, circuit boards, firewalls, monitoring devices, storage 
devices, and switches, fail for unidentified reasons. Age, factory flaws, power surges, 

heat, and tampering can affect hardware. A network is often a fragile chain of compo-

nents, all of which are necessary to keep the network in operation. In the worst case, the 

failure of any component causes the entire network to fail. In Sidebar 6-18 we describe 

how the failure of one or two circuit boards affected the State of Virginia.
Hardware failures are almost always natural occurrences. Although induced hard-
ware breakdowns are uncommon, they are not impossible. For example, the Stuxnet 

worm previously described in Sidebar 6-7 could exercise mechanical equipment to the 

point of failure.
We have considered what might be called individual denial-of-service attacks, 
actions that disable a single host or deny service to a single address or network segment. 

Such a situation is regrettable for the affected host or addresses. Although that kind of 

harm can incapacitate an ordinary user, large installations such as corporations or major 

government facilities are unfazed 

because they have great capacity 

and resiliency. However, the more 

serious reason to study these attacks 
is that they can be used as repeat-

able components in a much larger 
Denial-of-service attacks pit one 
adversary against one target; a well-
resourced target can usually outlast a 

less equipped attacker.
