 Section 13.1  The Internet of Things 
815  backup company acquires a new foreign owner in a country whose data protec-
tion policies are not trustworthy.
• potential for subversion.
 A malevolent government influences the opinions of its 
citizens by controlling content provided through online news sources, by plant-

ing slanted or even false stories.
• mistaken identification.
 You share your computer with a houseguest who has dif-
ferent tastes in entertainment from you, so inappropriate programs are recorded 
and your favorites are not.
• uncontrolled access.
 The exchange between your thermostat and your calendar 
is intercepted by a third party who, realizing your home is vacant, burglarizes 

while you are away.
In the next sections we offer two examples of current technologies to show you sev-
eral known security weaknesses. 
Medical DevicesThe field of medicine has advanced significantly with the support of computers. Digi-

tally controlled and enhanced scanning permits doctors to “see” a patient’s anatomy in 

ways never before possible. A computer controlled “cyberknife” allows more precise 

and less invasive surgery than conventional methods. Pacemakers have extended the 

lives of many patients. But these advances in technology also have potential downsides.
Program Safety Failures
We present a set of incidents here from a discipline similar to but different from secu-
rity: safety. In the safety community, there is no malevolent actor trying to exploit flaws, 

just ordinary people doing ordinary things in a way they think is proper. The problems 

we describe here are serious enough (some leading to patients’ deaths) that they engen-

dered careful public scrutiny, so we can see the precise failings that caused these several 

incidents. The programming and system difficulties raised in this safety review are no 

different from ones that might have been raised by a security analyst: How could a bad 

agent cause these devices to malfunction? Thus, we encourage you to think of security 

issues each time you hear of a safety problem caused by natural causes: Could a mali-

cious person with evil intent exploit the same faults?
The Therac 25 is a radiation therapy machine. It can be used in two modes: diagnos-
tic and treatment. In diagnostic mode it delivers a small dose of radiation, suitable for 

capturing an x-ray image, but in treatment mode it delivers a larger dose, intended for 

destroying tissue. The machine was controlled by a computer, and user (radiotherapy 

technician) input was entered on the computer’s keyboard and screen.
Between 1985 and 1987 six serious radiation accidents occurred that involved 
Therac 25 machines. Nancy Leveson has performed extensive analysis [LEV95] of the 
reasons behind these accidents. The accidents arose from different causes, including 

misleading user (operator) interface, race conditions among program routines, faulty 

(software) recognition of sensors, faulty keyboard recognition, and excessive reliance on 

software. In at least one case, safety problems were worsened because of a hasty attempt 
