 Section 10.3  Handling Incidents 
665  After the Incident Is ResolvedEventually, the incident response team closes the case. At this point the team will hold 
a review after the incident to consider two things:
• Is any security control action to be taken? 
Did an intruder compromise a system because security patches were not up to date; if so, should there be a proce-

dure to ensure that patches are applied when they become available? Was access 

obtained because of a poorly chosen password; if so, should there be a campaign 

to educate users on how to construct strong passwords? If there were control 

failures, what should be done to prevent similar attacks in the future?
• Did the incident response plan work? 
Did everyone know whom to notify? Did 
the team have needed resources? Was the response fast enough? Were certain criti-

cal resources unnecessarily affected? What should be done differently next time?
The incident response plan ensures that incidents are handled promptly, efficiently, 
and with minimal harm.Incident Response Teams
Many organizations name and maintain a team of people trained and authorized to 

handle a security incident. Such teams, called computer security incident response 
teams (CSIRTs
) or computer emergency response teams
 (CERTs
) are standard at large private and government organizations, as well as many smaller ones. A CSIRT can 

consist of one person or it can be a flexible team of dozens of people on call for special 

skills they can contribute.
The September–October 2014 issue of IEEE Security & Privacy magazine is devoted 
to CSIRTs. Papers include a case study of a national CSIRT and its coordination with 

other CSIRTs, how CSIRTs can (and must) automate the evaluation of millions of data 

items received hourly, and a study of CSIRT personnel from a psychological perspec-

tive to help teams be more effective.
Types of CSIRTs
A single person, the computer or network administrator of a small organization, may 
constitute the full and permanent incident response team. Responding to a major inci-

dent may overtake other ordinary responsibilities. For this reason, as an organization’s 

information technology operation becomes larger or more complex, the nature of its 

response capability often changes.But one person or one in-house response organization is not the full layout of inci-
dent response throughout the world. Although some incidents are confined to one orga-

nization, others involve multiple targets, sometimes across organizational, political, and 

geographic boundaries. Here are some models for CSIRTs:
• a full organizational response team to cover all incidents; such a team may 
include separate staff to deal with situations in different organizational units, 

such as plants in separate locations or distinct business units of a larger company
