 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
379  The data collection operated from 2007 until May 2010, when Google 
announced it had mistakenly collected 600 MB of wireless content data. 

Although the audit establishes that the captured data items were parsed so 

as to separate encrypted and different kinds of unencrypted data, Google 

contends that writing and retaining the data was a mistake.
In 2013 Google agreed to a settlement of $7 million in law suits 
brought by 37 states in the United States (in addition to a $25,000 fine 

Google paid the U.S. government over a claim it had willfully stonewalled 

investigation into a claim of privacy violations in that activity. And in 2011 

it paid a fine of 100,000 € (approximately $150,000 US). In 2013 Germany 
fined Google 145,000 
€ (approximately $200,000 US), and Google paid 
Italy 1 million € (approximately $1.4 million US) over privacy violations of 
this project. (Google’s gross income for 2013 was $33 billion US so these 

fines amount to less than 0.1 percent of Google’s revenue for the year.)
One can argue that Google merely listened to public radio waves, 
which are exposed to anyone with an appropriate receiver. An extension 

of this argument is that these airwaves are no more protected than sound 

waves or visual images: As you talk in public you have no expectation 

that your conversation is private, and you know amateur photographers 

may catch your image when you happen to be in front of a landmark they 

are shooting. A counterargument is that because of various security mea-

sures you employ, you intend that your computer access be private. Legal 

aspects of this situation are likely to be debated for some time.
WiFi FramesEach WiFi data unit is called a 
frame. Each frame contains three fields: 
MAC header
, payload, and FCS (frame check sequence). The MAC header contains fixed-sized 
fields, including
• frame type: control, management, or data
• ToDS, FromDS: direction of this frame: to or from the access point

• fragmentation and order control bits

• WEP (wired equivalent privacy) or encryption bit: encryption, described shortly

• up to four MAC addresses (physical device identifiers): sender and receiver’s 
addresses, plus two optional addresses for traffic filtering points
The payload or frame body is the actual data being transmitted, 0–2304 bytes whose structure depends on the application handling the data. The frame check sequence is an 

integrity check (actually a cyclic redundancy check, which we describe in Chapter 2) to 

ensure accurate transmission of the entire frame. The format of a WiFi frame is shown 

in Figure 6-16.