 Section 12.3  Asymmetric Encryption with RSA 
795  RC6To compete in the AES competition, RSA Laboratories made minor modifications to 
RC5, calling it RC6. The RC6 cipher is a proprietary product of RSA Security, but it 

does not appear to be supported.There are thousands of other symmetric encryption algorithms. As we stated earlier 
in this chapter, cryptology is an extraordinarily complex subject, certainly not one to 

be tackled lightly. Although a friend of a friend might have the background to devise a 

solid algorithm, be wary of amateurs practicing cryptology (or brain surgery, for that 

matter). You should choose cryptography with care, and certainly match your assess-

ment of the strength of a technique to the value of the data you want to protect. Well-

known algorithms that have withstood concerted scrutiny are your best tools.
We now turn to even more sophisticated algorithms in asymmetric cryptography.
12.3 ASYMMETRIC ENCRYPTION WITH RSA
As we present in Chapter 2, asymmetric cryptography, also known as public key, uses 

two different but related keys. One key encrypts data, and its matching counterpart 

decrypts. Mathematically, it is infeasible to derive one key from the other, so it is safe 

to release one key (often called the public key) as long as you do not disclose the other 

one (often called the private key).
The RSA algorithm is a cryptosystem based on an underlying hard problem This 
algorithm was introduced in 1978 by Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman [RIV78]. RSA has 

been the subject of extensive cryptanalysis. No serious flaws have yet been found—not 

a guarantee of its security but suggesting a high degree of confidence in its use.
The RSA AlgorithmIn this section, we present the RSA algorithm in two parts. First, we outline RSA, to 

give you an idea of how it works. Then, we delve more deeply into a detailed analysis 

of the steps involved.
Introduction to the RSA Algorithm
The RSA algorithm requires finding terms that multiply to a particular product. The 
RSA encryption algorithm incorporates results from number theory, combined with the 

difficulty of determining the prime factors of a target. The RSA algorithm operates with 

arithmetic mod n, which makes factorization extremely difficult.
The encryption algorithm is based on the underlying problem of factoring large num-
bers, a problem for which the fastest known algorithm is exponential in time.
Two keys, 
d and 
e, are used for decryption and encryption. They are actually inter-
changeable. The plaintext block 
P is encrypted as 
Pe mod 
n. Because the exponentia-
tion is performed mod n, factoring 
Pe to uncover the encrypted plaintext is daunting. 
However, the decrypting key 
d is carefully chosen so that (
Pe)d mod 
n  P. Thus, the 
legitimate receiver who knows 
d simply computes (
Pe)d mod 
n  P and recovers 
P without having to factor 
Pe.