376 Chapter 6  
NetworksWireless Communication
To appreciate how security is applied to wireless communications and where it can fail, 
you need to know the general structure of wireless data communication. Wireless (and 

also wired) data communications are implemented through an orderly set of exchanges 

called a protocol
. We use protocols in everyday life to accomplish simple exchanges. 
For example, a familiar protocol involves making and receiving a telephone call. If you 

call a friend you perform a version of these steps:
1. You press buttons to activate your phone.
2. You press buttons to select and transmit the friend’s number (a process that used 
to be called dialing the phone). 3. Your friend hears a tone and presses a button to accept your call.
4. Your friend says “hello,” or some other greeting.
5. You say hello.
6. You begin your conversation.
This process doesn’t work if you start to speak before your friend hears and answers 
the phone, or if your friend accepts your call but never says anything. These six steps 

must be followed in order and in this general form for the simple process of making a 

telephone call work. We all learn and use this protocol without thinking of the process, 

but the pattern helps us communicate easily and efficiently.
Similar protocols regulate the entire WiFi communication process. You can use your 
computer, made in one country with software written in another, to connect to wireless 

access points all around the world because these protocols are an internationally agreed-

on standard, called the 802.11 suite of protocols. We now present important points of 
the 802.11 protocols that are significant for security.
The 802.11 Protocol Suite
The 802.11 protocols all describe how devices communicate in the 2.4 GHz radio signal 
band (essentially 2.4 GHz–2.5 GHz) allotted to WiFi. The band is divided into 14 chan-

nels or subranges within the band; these channels overlap to avoid interference with 

nearby devices. WiFi devices are designed to use only a few channels, often channels 

1, 6, and 11. Wireless signals can travel up to 100 meters (300 feet), although the qual-

ity of the signal diminishes with distance, and intervening objects such as walls and 

trees also interfere with communication. The protocol 802.11n improves the range, and 

devices called repeaters can extend the range of existing wireless transmitters.
As shown in Figure 6-15, a wireless network consists of an 
access point or router 
that receives, forwards and transmits data, and one or more devices, sometimes called 

stations, such as computers or printers, that communicate with the access point. The 
access point is the hub of the wireless subnetwork. Each device must have a 
network 
interface card, or NIC, that com-
municates radio signals with the 

access point. The NIC is identified 

by a unique 48- or 64-bit hardware 

address called a medium access 
A NIC identifies itself (and hence its connected computer) by a supposedly 
unique MAC address.
