 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
365  breaking the encryption. Suppose a merchant has a credit card terminal with built-in 
encryption, such that the user’s card number, perhaps a PIN, the transaction amount, 

and merchant’s identifier are bound into a single message, encrypted, and transmitted to 

the credit processing center. Even without breaking the encryption, a merchant who taps 

the communications line can repeat that same transaction message for a second transfer 
of the same amount. Of course, two identical transactions to one merchant would be 

noticeable and natural for the client to dispute, and the net gain from repeating a single 
credit purchase would be relatively small. Nevertheless, possible repetition of a transac-

tion would be a vulnerability.
Replay attacks can also be used with authentication credentials. Transmitting an 
identity and password in the clear is an obvious weakness, but transmitting an identity 

in the clear but with an encrypted password is similarly weak, as shown in Figure 6-10. 

If the attacker can interject the encrypted password into the communications line, then 

the attacker can impersonate a valid user without knowing the password.
A similar example involves cookies for authentication. Email programs that run 
within a browser (such as Gmail, Yahoo mail, and Hotmail) sometimes identify and 

authenticate with a cookie so a user need not repeatedly type an identifier and password 

to open email. If the attacker can intercept cookies being sent to (or extract cookies 

stored by) the victim’s browser, then returning that same cookie can let the attacker open 

an email session under the identity of the victim. The login and password exchange can 

be securely encrypted and so can the content of the cookie. For this attack to succeed, 

the remote email service need only accept a copy of its own cookie as a valid login 

credential.Replay attacks are countered with a sequencing number. The sender assigns each 
communication a sequence number, which can be unique to a single recipient (mes-

sage 1 to James, message 2 to James, and so forth) or one numbering sequence for all 
messages (message 1, message 2, message 3, where 1 went to James, 2 to Klara, and 3 to 
Lars). Each recipient keeps the last message number received and checks each incoming 

message to ensure that its number is greater than the previous message received.
FIGURE 6-10 Encrypted Password Failure
InterceptionEncryptionIDIDIDPWPassword (encrypted)Password (encrypted)ReplayServer