 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
123  Certificate Signing Without a Single Hierarchy
In our examples, certificates were issued on the basis of the managerial structure. But 
we do not require such a structure nor do we have to follow such a convoluted process in 

order to use certificate signing for authentication. Anyone who is considered acceptable as 

an authority can sign a certificate. For example, if you want to determine whether a person 

received a degree from a university, you would not contact the president or chancellor but 

would instead go to the office of records or the registrar. To verify someone’s employ-

ment, you might ask the personnel office or the director of human resources. And to check 

if someone lives at a particular address, you might consult the office of public records.
Sometimes, a particular person is designated to attest to the authenticity or validity 
of a document or person. For example, a notary public attests to the validity of a (writ-

ten) signature on a document. Some companies have a security officer to verify that 

an employee has appropriate security clearances to read a document or attend a meet-

ing. Many companies have a separate personnel office for each site or each plant loca-

tion; the personnel officer vouches for the employment status of the employees at that 

site. Any of these officers or heads of offices could credibly sign certificates for people 

under their purview. Natural hierarchies exist in society, and these same hierarchies can 

be used to validate certificates.
The only problem with a hierarchy is the need for trust of the top level. The entire chain 
of authenticity is secure because each certificate contains the key that decrypts the next 

certificate, except for the top. Within a company, employees naturally trust the person at 

the top. But if certificates are to become widely used in electronic commerce, people must 

be able to exchange certificates securely across companies, organizations, and countries.
Name: DianaPosition: Division Manager

Public key: 17EF83CA ...
hash value
128C4Name: DelwynPosition: Dept Manager

Public key: 3AB3882C ...
hash value
48CFA
Name: MukeshPosition: Project Manager

Public key: 47F0F008 ...
hash value
16802Name: Camilla
Position: Group LeaderPublic key: 44082CCA ...
hash value
12346Name: BettyPosition: Task Leader

Public key: 2468ACE0 ...
hash value
00002Name: Andrew
Position: Worker

Public key: 7013F82A ...
hash value
60206Encrypted under Betty’s private key
Encrypted under Edward’s private key
Encrypted under Camilla’s private key
Encrypted under Mukesh’s private key
Encrypted under Delwyn’s private key
Encrypted under Diana’s private key
Key to encryptions
FIGURE 2-32 Certificate Hierarchy
