6 Chapter 1  
IntroductionHowever, we can see a small crack in the wall—a vulnerability that threatens the 
man’s security. If the water rises to or beyond the level of the crack, it will exploit the 

vulnerability and harm the man.There are many threats to a computer system, including human-initiated and 
 computer-initiated ones. We have all experienced the results of inadvertent human 

errors, hardware design flaws, and software failures. But natural disasters are threats, 

too; they can bring a system down when the computer room is flooded or the data center 

collapses from an earthquake, for example.
A human who exploits a vulnerability perpetrates an 
attack on the system. An attack 
can also be launched by another system, as when one system sends an overwhelming 

flood of messages to another, virtually shutting down the second system’s ability to 

function. Unfortunately, we have seen this type of attack frequently, as denial-of-service 

attacks deluge servers with more messages than they can handle. (We take a closer look 

at denial of service in Chapter 6.)How do we address these problems? We use a 
control
 or 
countermeasure 
as pro-tection. That is, a control is an action, device, procedure, or technique that removes or 

reduces a vulnerability. In Figure 1-4, the man is placing his finger in the hole, control-

ling the threat of water leaks until 

he finds a more permanent solution 

to the problem. In general, we can 

describe the relationship between 

threats, controls, and vulnerabilities 

in this way:
A threat
 is blocked by 
control
 of a vulnerability
.Before we can protect assets, we need to know the kinds of harm we have to protect 
them against, so now we explore threats to valuable assets.
1.2 THREATS
We can consider potential harm to assets in two ways: First, we can look at what bad 

things can happen to assets, and second, we can look at who or what can cause or allow 

those bad things to happen. These two perspectives enable us to determine how to pro-

tect assets.Think for a moment about what makes your computer valuable to you. First, you 
use it as a tool for sending and receiving email, searching the web, writing papers, and 

performing many other tasks, and you expect it to be available for use when you want 

it. Without your computer these tasks would be harder, if not impossible. Second, you 

rely heavily on your computer’s integrity. When you write a paper and save it, you trust 

that the paper will reload exactly as you saved it. Similarly, you expect that the photo a 

friend passes you on a flash drive will appear the same when you load it into your com-

puter as when you saw it on your friend’s computer. Finally, you expect the “personal” 

aspect of a personal computer to stay personal, meaning you want it to protect your 

confidentiality. For example, you want your email messages to be just between you and 
Controls prevent threats from exercising 

vulnerabilities.