820 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
Apple can remove an app from the app store with relative ease and speed, but seems 
unable to remove a malicious app from users’ devices, instead requiring each user to 

remove it.
Google’s approach to vetting apps is quite different. Google allows users to download 
and install apps from any source; numerous app sources for Android exist throughout 

the world. Malware researchers report that games and entertainment are the category of 

app most often infected with malware and, not surprisingly, this category is also heavily 

represented in third-party stores for Android apps.
The fact that there is no central authority to monitor Google’s apps for security is 
certainly a major factor contributing to the disproportionately large share of malware 

for Android phones.
Smartphone DevicesNot only are developers hurrying to make applications available for smartphones, tech-
nologists are rushing to integrate smartphones into other activities. Photo recognition 

software lets you identify and tag friends in photos. Of course, you can use the location-

sensing component of your phone to direct you if you get lost (assuming you have 

connectivity), but that same technology potentially allows a stalker to track your move-

ments throughout the day. You can monitor your home’s security system from your 

smartphone or track various metrics on your health (such as cortisol level or heart rate). 

But pushing more personal data onto a mobile device increases the exposure to inter-

ception and perhaps unwanted interference. For example, an attacker could remotely 

disable your home’s security system and then break in. Your device could secretly feed 

your health statistics to your insurance company, which could raise your rates because 

you do not raise your heart rate sufficiently when you exercise.
Security in the Internet of Things
We have just examined two technologies that are part of the Internet of things. Devel-

opers and users envision important benefits that could come from enabling medical 

devices to access the Internet. Mobile phone users already enjoy the advantages of run-

ning apps. As more devices are connected, people are likely to become enchanted with 

new capabilities.
Technology often comes with benefits and drawbacks. As we add more capabili-
ties, personal data, and sensitive functionality to a handheld computer that also hap-

pens to function as a telephone, we are subject to the weaknesses and limitations of 

that computer. The lessons of threat surface analysis (Chapter 1), weak identification 

and authentication (Chapter 2), secure software development practices (Chapter 3), and 

operating system structuring and assurance (Chapter 5) may not be known to applica-

tion developers anxious to extend their functionality to a platform the user always has 

at hand. If technologists do not know or learn the lessons of security, they are likely to 

produce insecure products with potentially catastrophic consequences.Users and developers should be cautious as the Internet of things evolves. As previ-
ous examples have shown, once an insecure concept or approach is established in prod-

ucts, securing the technology becomes extremely difficult.
