 Section 10.2  Business Continuity Planning 
661  must develop a strategy appropri-
ate for your business and custom-

ers. For instance, you can decide 

whether it is better to preserve half 

of function A and half of B, or most 

of A and none of B.
You also must consider the time frame in which business is done. Some catastrophes 
last longer than others. For example, rebuilding after a fire is a long process and implies 

a long time in disaster mode. Your strategy may have several steps, each dependent on 

how long the business is disabled. Thus, you may take one action in response to a one-

hour outage, and another if the outage might last a day or longer.
Because you are planning in advance, you have the luxury of being able to think 
about possible circumstances and evaluate alternatives. For instance, you may realize 

that if the Tokyo site takes on work for the disabled London site, there will be a sig-

nificant difference in time zones. It may be better to divert morning calls to Tokyo and 

afternoon ones to Dallas, to avoid asking Tokyo staff to work extra hours.
The result of a strategy analysis is a selection of the best actions, organized by cir-
cumstances. The strategy can then be used as the basis for your business continuity plan.
Develop the PlanThe business continuity plan specifies several important things:
• who is in charge when an incident occurs
• what to do

• who does it
The plan justifies making advance arrangements, such as acquiring redundant equip-
ment, arranging for data backups, and stockpiling supplies, before the catastrophe. The 

plan also justifies advance training so that people know how they should react. In a 

catastrophe there will be confusion; you do not want to add confused people to the 

already severe problem.
The person in charge declares the state of emergency and instructs people to follow 
the procedures documented in the plan. The person in charge also declares when the 

emergency is over and conditions can revert to normal.
Seldom will the plan tell precise steps to take in a crisis, because the nature of crises 
is too varied. Even in broad categories (such as, something causes the network to fail) 

the nature of “failure” and the prospects for recovery (one hour, one day, one week) are 

so imprecise that no plan can dictate what to do in each situation. Instead, the person in 
charge has latitude to take action that seems best at the time. The point is, one person is 

in charge and is authorized to spend money necessary to recover at least partially.
Thus, the business continuity planning addresses how to maintain some degree of 
critical business activity in spite of a catastrophe. Its focus is on keeping the business 

viable. It is based on the asset survey, which focuses on only a few critical assets and 

serious vulnerabilities that could threaten operation for a long or undetermined period 

of time.Business continuity planning forces a 

company to set base priorities.