 Section 10.4  Risk Analysis 
671  Step 1: Identify AssetsBefore we can identify vulnerabilities, we must first decide what we need to protect. 
Thus, the first step of a risk analysis is to identify the assets of the computing system. 

The assets can be considered in categories, as listed below. The first three categories 

are the assets identified in Chapter 1 and described throughout this book. The remain-

ing items are not strictly a part of a computing system but are important to its proper 

functioning.• hardware:
 processors, boards, keyboards, monitors, terminals, microcomputers, 
workstations, tape drives, printers, disks, disk drives, cables, connections, com-

munications controllers, and communications media • software:
 source programs, object programs, purchased programs, in-house pro-
grams, utility programs, operating systems, systems programs (such as compil-
ers), and maintenance diagnostic programs • data: data used during execution, stored data on various media, printed data, 
archival data, update logs, and audit records 
• people: skilled staff needed to run the computing system or specific programs, 
as well as support personnel such as guards• documentation: on programs, hardware, systems, administrative procedures, 
and the entire system• supplies: paper, forms, laser cartridges, recordable media, and printer ink, as 
well as power, heating and cooling, and necessary buildings or shelter
• reputation
: company image
• availability: ability to do business, ability to resume business rapidly and effi-
ciently after an incidentYou have to tailor this list to your own situation. No two organizations will have the 
same assets to protect, and something that is valuable in one organization may not be as 
3. Analyze the vulnerabilities.
4. Assess the risks.

5. Apply countermeasures.
Similarly, the U.S. Air Force uses an Operational Risk Management 
procedure to support its decision making. [AIR00] The steps are
1. Identify hazards.
2. Assess hazards.

3. Make risk decisions.

4. Implement controls.

5. Supervise.As you can see, the steps are similar, but their details are always 
tailored to the particular situation at hand. For this reason, you may use 

someone else’s risk analysis process as a framework, but then change it to 

match your own situation.