 Section 13.4  Cyber Warfare 
841  or all votes are recorded and then examined later, to make sure that no changes were 
made from the time the vote was cast to the time it was recorded and tallied with other 

votes. Sometimes, a printed version of the result is used so that the voting process can 

be reconstructed. Indeed, some researchers argue that only with a printed copy and 

voter verification can a voting process be fair.
How could the audit log itself be the subject of an attack? And what about protecting 
the privacy of votes in transmission to election headquarters?
UsabilityVoting systems are to be used by all people, but we know that factors of age, physi-
cal condition, mental acuity, and language and reading skills affect how people inter-

act with technology. On one hand, computer technology may improve access by, for 

example, providing a large-type ballot or one in a foreign language. On the other hand, 

usability (or its lack) can harm accuracy if, for example, a critical instruction (“to cast 

this ballot press [here]”) were displayed in small type or after a few seconds the pro-

gram moved to the next screen even if the voter had not selected a choice. How could 

you alter the outcome of an election by usability features? How can usability promote 

or reduce availability?
Cost and BenefitMany of the techniques we can devise for protecting the electronic voting process can 
be complicated and expensive. How much is enough for protecting votes and providing 

a fair election? How would we determine the return on investment, especially when a 

small number of votes can make a big difference in an election? And can we always 

assume that an electronic process is more efficient? Switzerland, a land of approxi-

mately five million eligible voters, uses both paper and electronic ballots in its voting 

process, with the electronic portion currently capped at 20 percent of the electorate. But 
the results of a Swiss election are usually available within six hours of the polls’ closure. 

This efficiency results from simple ballot design and simple elections (for example, 

not very many candidates on the ballot). How can we determine the trade-offs between 

technological risk and voting risk?
13.4 CYBER WARFARE
In recent years, many governments have turned their attention to the notion of cyber 

warfare, asking several key questions:
• When is an attack on the cyber infrastructure considered to be an act of warfare?
• Is cyberspace different enough to be considered a separate domain for war, or is 
it much like any other domain (such as land, sea, or air)?
• What are the different ways of thinking about cyber war offense and defense?

• What are the benefits and risks of strategic cyber warfare and tactical cyber 
warfare?
