198 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programmingnear the top of the list for highest proportion of web sites containing malicious code. A web site could be located anywhere, although a .cn or .ru at the end of 

a URL associates the domain with China or Russia, respectively. However, the 

United States is also often high on such lists because of the large number of 

web-hosting providers located there. 
• Make a recoverable system image and store it safely
. If your system does 
become infected, this clean version will let you reboot securely because it over-

writes the corrupted system files with clean copies. For this reason, you must 

keep the image write-protected during reboot. Prepare this image now, before 

infection; after infection is too late. For safety, prepare an extra copy of the safe 

boot image.• Make and retain backup copies of executable system files
. This way, in the event 
of a virus infection, you can remove infected files and reinstall from the clean 

backup copies (stored in a secure, offline location, of course). Also make and 

retain backups of important data files that might contain infectable code; such 

files include word-processor documents, spreadsheets, slide presentations, pic-

tures, sound files, and databases. Keep these backups on inexpensive media, 

such as CDs or DVDs, a flash memory device, or a removable disk so that you 

can keep old backups for a long time. In case you find an infection, you want to 

be able to start from a clean backup, that is, one taken before the infection.
As for blocking system vulnerabilities, the recommendation is clear but problem-
atic. As new vulnerabilities become known you should apply patches. However, finding 

flaws and fixing them under time pressure is often less than perfectly effective. Zero-

day attacks are especially problematic, because a vulnerability presumably unknown to 

the software writers is now being exploited, so the manufacturer will press the develop-

ment and maintenance team hard to develop and disseminate a fix. Furthermore, sys-

tems run many different software products from different vendors, but a vendor’s patch 

cannot and does not consider possible interactions with other software. Thus, not only 

may a patch not repair the flaw for which it was intended, but it may fail or cause fail-

ure in conjunction with other software. Indeed, cases have arisen where a patch to one 

software application has been “recognized” incorrectly by an antivirus checker to be 

malicious code—and the system has ground to a halt. Thus, we recommend that you 

should apply all patches promptly except when doing so would cause more harm than 

good, which of course you seldom know in advance.
Still, good hygiene and self-defense are important controls users can take against 
malicious code. Most users rely 

on tools, called virus scanners or 

malicious code detectors, to guard 

against malicious code that some-

how makes it onto a system.
Virus Detectors
Virus scanners are tools that look for signs of malicious code infection. Most such tools 
look for a signature or fingerprint, a telltale pattern in program files or memory. As we 
Virus detectors are powerful but not all-

powerful.