 Section 13.3  Electronic Voting 
837  • The voting system must be tamperproof, and the election officials must be pre-
vented from allowing it to be tampered with.
• All votes must be reported accurately.

• The voting system must be available for use throughout the election period.

• An audit trail must be kept to detect irregularities in voting, but without disclos-
ing how any individual voted.
As people used to thinking of threats and vulnerabilities (in part from your reading of this book), you may already be thinking of ways to negate some items on this list. 

These conditions are challenging in ordinary paper- and machine-based elections; they 

are even harder to meet in computer-based elections, especially if there is no mecha-

nism to enable the voter to verify that the vote recorded is the same as the vote cast. And 

as we noted above, voting privacy is essential; in some repressive countries, voting for 

the wrong candidate can be fatal.
By looking at the staggering amounts of financial contributions to support candidates 
in public elections in the United States, we see that much is at stake in these contests. 

Although we would like to believe in the impartiality of this support, the magnitude of 

the numbers suggests that there would be ample motive for an attacker to try to manipu-

late the outcome of the election. If a group donated a large sum of money for a can-

didate’s election that was still up to 

the voters, might the group choose 

to spend that money more effec-

tively to support an attacker who 

could produce a definite outcome?
Fair elections are important because public confidence in the validity of the outcome 
is critical. Consequently, a fair election process must include a mechanism for validat-

ing both the accuracy of the collection and the reporting of votes. In a poorly designed 

process, these two requirements can be contradictory.
What Are the Critical Issues?
One way to enforce the security of the voting process is to use a protocol that is fol-

lowed carefully by everyone involved. DeMillo and Merritt [DEM83] were among the 

first to devise protocols for computerized voting. Shortly thereafter, Hoffman investi-

gated the security and reliability of possible electronic voting schemes [HOF87] and 

recommended ways to use computers to cast votes at polling places [HOF00]. 
Indeed, many researchers are skeptical that electronic voting can ever be trusted. For 
example, Rubin’s analysis [RUB00] concludes that, “Given the current state of insecu-

rity of hosts and the vulnerability of the Internet to manipulation and denial-of-service 
attacks, there is no way that a public election of any significance involving remote elec-

tronic voting could be carried out securely.”
Several analyses have borne out these fears. For example, [SCH04] details problems 
with voting machines, and the analysis by Di Franco et al. [DIF04] of the U.S. presi-

dential election in 2000 demonstrates that a change of only two votes in each precinct 

would have resulted in a completely different outcome: Gore instead of Bush. More 
In terms of method–opportunity–
motive, affecting election results 

presents possibilities for all three.
