 Section 9.7  Privacy Impacts of Emerging Technologies 
641  efficiency of such systems is poor. We would like to use computerized voting systems to 
improve efficiency without sacrificing privacy or accuracy. In this section we consider 

the privacy aspects of computerized voting. We also consider broader security issues in 

Chapter 13.Privacy and the Voting Process
Generating and counting ballots is the most obvious step in the election process; build-
ing and maintaining the list of eligible voters, recording who has voted (and keeping 

one person from voting twice), supporting absentee ballots, assisting voters at the 

wrong polling place, and transmitting election results to election headquarters are other 
important steps. Each of these has obvious privacy implications. For example, in some 

political cultures, it may be desirable to maintain privacy of who has voted (to prevent 

retaliation against people who did not vote for a powerful candidate). Similarly, as we 

know from other security studies, it is important to protect the privacy of votes in trans-

mission to election headquarters.In 2005, the U.S. Computer Science and Telecommunications Board (CSTB) of the 
National Academies of Science [NRC05] released its study of electronic voting. The 

report raised questions that must be addressed in any thorough debate about electronic 

voting. For example, the CSTB asked how an electronic voting process will assure 

individual privacy in voter registration and in individual votes. In addition, the study 

emphasized that the public must have confidence in the process; otherwise, the public 

will not trust the outcome.Privacy-Preserving Technology
The critical privacy problem with voting is ensuring accountability in addition to pri-
vacy. In many approaches, for example, encrypting a vote with the public key of the 

election board, could preserve confidentiality. The difficulty is in ensuring that only 

authorized people can vote (that is, that each vote counted is the submission of one 

authorized voter), and that an authorized person can vote only once. These last charac-

teristics could similarly be handled easily, if only we did not need to ensure privacy of 

an individual’s choices. Anything that associates a countable vote with a specific named 

individual destroys the voter’s privacy.
Finland, Estonia, the Netherlands, and several other countries have run pilot elec-
tronic election projects. In Finland, the experiment went badly because voters were 

unable to determine whether their vote had been accepted (which it had not). In Esto-

nia, independent election reviewers identified many problems with the procedures and 

software used, although they did not allege any incorrectly counted votes [HAL14]. 

An electronic system was used in the Netherlands in 2004 and 2006, but a controversy 

developed, damaging public trust in the voting process. Consequently, the technology 

was abandoned in 2008. In these documented cases, the privacy of individuals’ votes 

was not in question; other fairness properties of the election were the concern.
These situations show that considerably more work on both the technology and pub-
lic perception of electronic voting are needed. Privacy is but one area requiring new, 

trustworthy developments.
