346 Chapter 6  
NetworksMicrowave
Microwave signals are not carried along a wire; they are broadcast through the air, 
making them more accessible to outsiders. Microwave is a line-of-sight technology; the 

receiver needs to be on an unblocked line with the sender’s signal. Typically, a trans-

mitter’s signal is focused on its corresponding receiver because microwave reception 

requires a clear space between sender and receiver. The signal path is fairly wide, to 

be sure of hitting the receiver, as shown in Figure 6-1. From a security standpoint, the 

wide swath is an invitation to mischief. Not only can someone intercept a microwave 

transmission by interfering with the line of sight between sender and receiver, someone 

can also pick up an entire transmission from an antenna located close to but slightly off 

the direct focus point.A microwave signal is usually not shielded or isolated to prevent interception. 
Microwave is, therefore, an insecure medium because the signal is so exposed. How-

ever, because of the large volume of traffic carried by microwave links, an interceptor is 

unlikely to separate an individual transmission from all the others interleaved with it. A 

privately owned microwave link, carrying only communications for one organization, is 

not so well protected by volume.
Microwave signals require true visible alignment, so they are of limited use in hilly 
terrain. Plus, because the curvature of the earth interferes with transmission, microwave 

signals must be picked up and repeated to span long distances, which complicates long 

distance communications, for example, over oceans. The solution to these limitations is, 

surprisingly, satellites.
Satellite CommunicationSignals can be bounced off a satellite: from earth to the satellite and back to earth again. 
The sender and receiver are fixed points; the sender beams a signal over a wide area in 

which the satellite is located, and the satellite rebroadcasts that signal to a certain radius 
around the receiver. Satellites are in orbit at a level synchronized to the earth’s orbit, so 

they appear to be in a fixed point relative to the earth.
SenderReceiver
Intended Signal Path 
Actual Signal Path

(to account for 
errors in aim) InterceptorInterceptorFIGURE 6-1 Microwave Transmission Interception
