760 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsIn this study we consider ethical behavior in a shared-use computing environment, 
such as the Internet. The questions are similar to “what behavior is acceptable in outer 

space?” or “who owns the oceans?”
Goli is a computer security consultant; she enjoys the challenge of finding and fixing 
security vulnerabilities. Independently wealthy, she does not need to work, so she has 

ample spare time in which to test the security of systems.In her spare time, Goli does three things: First, she aggressively attacks commer-
cial products for vulnerabilities. She is quite proud of the tools and approach she has 
developed, and she is quite successful at finding flaws. Second, she probes accessible 

systems on the Internet, and when she finds vulnerable sites, she contacts the owners 

to offer her services repairing the problems. Finally, she is a strong believer in high-
quality pastry, and she plants small programs to slow performance in the web sites of 

pastry shops that do not use enough butter in their pastries. Let us examine these three 

actions in order.
Vulnerabilities in Commercial Products
We have already described a current debate regarding the vulnerability reporting pro-
cess. Now let us explore the ethical issues involved in that debate.
Clearly from a rule-based ethical theory, attackers are wrong to perform malicious 
attacks. The appropriate theory seems to be one of consequence: Who is helped or hurt 

by finding and publicizing flaws in products? Relevant parties are attackers, the vulner-

ability finder, the vendor, and the using public. Notoriety or credit for finding the flaw 

is a small interest. And the interests of the vendor (financial, public relations) are less 

important than the interests of users to have secure products. But how are the interests 

of users best served?
• Full disclosure
 helps users assess the seriousness of the vulnerability and apply 
appropriate protection. But it also gives attackers more information with which 

to formulate attacks. Early full disclosure—before the vendor has countermea-

sures ready—may actually harm users by leaving them vulnerable to a now 

widely known attack.
• Partial disclosure
—the general nature of the vulnerability but not a detailed 
exploitation scenario—may forestall attackers. One can argue that the vulner-

ability details are there to be discovered; when a vendor announces a patch for 

an unspecified flaw in a product, the attackers will test that product aggressively 

and study the patch carefully to try to determine the vulnerability. Attackers 

will then spread a complete description of the vulnerability to other attackers 

through an underground network, and attacks will start against users who may 

not have applied the vendor’s fix.
• No disclosure
. Perhaps users are best served by a scheme in which every so 
often new code is released, sometimes fixing security vulnerabilities, some-

times fixing things that are not security related, and sometimes adding new 

features. But without a sense of significance or urgency, users may not install 

this new code.
