104 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Suppose you need to send a protected message to someone you do not know and who 
does not know you. This situation is more common than you may think. For instance, 

you may want to send your income tax return to the government. You want the informa-

tion to be protected, but you do not necessarily know the person who is receiving the 

information. Similarly, you may want to purchase from a shopping website, exchange 

private (encrypted) email, or arrange for two hosts to establish a protected channel. 

Each of these situations depends on being able to exchange an encryption key in such 

a way that nobody else can intercept it. The problem of two previously unknown par-

ties exchanging cryptographic keys is both hard and important. Indeed, the problem 

is almost circular: To establish an encrypted session, you need an encrypted means to 

exchange keys.
Public key cryptography can help. Since asymmetric keys come in pairs, one half of 
the pair can be exposed without compromising the other half. In fact, you might think 

of the public half of the key pair as truly public—posted on a public website, listed in a 

public directory similar to a telephone listing, or sent openly in an email message. That 

is the beauty of public key cryptography: As long as the private key is not disclosed, a 

public key can be open without compromising the security of the encryption.
Simple Key Exchange Protocol
Suppose that a sender, Amy, and a receiver, Bill, both have pairs of asymmetric keys 
for a common encryption algorithm. We denote any public key encryption function as 
 E(k, X), meaning perform the public key encryption function on 
X by using key 
k. Call the keys 
kPRIV-
A, kPUB-A, kPRIV-
B, and kPUB-B, for the private and public keys for Amy and 
Bill, respectively.
TABLE 2-13 
Comparison of Secret Key and Public Key Encryption
Secret Key (Symmetric)Public Key (Asymmetric)
Number of keys
12Key size (bits)
Depends on the algorithm; 56–112 (DES), 128–256 (AES)Unlimited; typically no less than 256; 1000 to 2000 currently considered 
desirable for most usesProtection of 
key
Must be kept secretOne key must be kept secret; the other 
can be freely exposed
Best usesCryptographic workhorse. Secrecy and 
integrity of data, from single characters 

to blocks of data, messages and files
Key exchange, authentication, signing
Key distribution
Must be out-of-bandPublic key can be used to distribute 
other keys
SpeedFastSlow, typically by a factor of up to 
10,000 times slower than symmetric 

algorithms