 Section 11.3  Rights of Employees and Employers 
725  Contracts help fill the voids among criminal, civil, and tort law. That is, in the 
absence of relevant statutes, we first see common tort law develop. But people then 

enhance these laws by writing contracts with the specific protections they want.
Enforcement of civil law—torts or contracts—can be expensive because it requires 
one party to sue the other. The legal system is informally weighted by money. It is 

attractive to sue a wealthy party who could pay a hefty judgment. And a big company 

that can afford dozens of top-quality lawyers will more likely prevail in a suit than an 

average individual.
11.3 RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYERS
Employers hire employees to generate ideas and make products. The protection offered 

by copyrights, patents, and trade secrets appeals to employers because it applies to ideas 

and products. However, the issue of who owns the ideas and products is complex. Own-

ership is a computer security concern because it relates to the rights of an employer to 

protect the secrecy and integrity of works produced by the employees. In this section 

we study the respective rights of employers and employees to their computer products.
Ownership of Products
Suppose Edye works for a computer software company. As part of her job, she develops 

a program to manage windows for a computer screen display. The program belongs 

to her company because it paid Edye to write the program: she wrote it as a part of a 

work assignment. Thus, Edye cannot market this program herself. She could not sell it 

even if she worked for a non-software-related company but developed the software as 

part of her job. Most employees understand this aspect of their responsibilities to their 

employer.
Instead, suppose Edye develops this program in the evenings at home; it is not a part 
of her job. Then she tries to market the product herself. If Edye works as a programmer, 

her employer will probably say that Edye profited from training and experience gained on 

the job; at the very least, Edye probably conceived or thought about the project while at 

work. Therefore, the employer has an interest in (that is, owns at least part of) the rights to 

her program. However, the situation changes if Edye’s primary job does not involve pro-

gramming. If Edye is a television newscaster, her employer may have contributed nothing 

that relates to her computer product. If her job does not involve programming, she may 

be free to market any computer product she makes. And if Edye’s spare-time program is 

an application that tracks genealogy, 

her employer would probably not 

want rights to her program, since it is 

far from its area of business. (If you 

are in such a situation yourself, you 
should check with your employer to 

be sure.)An employment contract clarifies for 
both parties an employee’s rights to 

computer products.
