356 Chapter 6  
NetworksAt the Black Hat security conference in February 2010, IBM security 
researcher Tom Cross presented a paper in which he revealed technical 

and procedural issues with Cisco’s routers that affect lawful interception. 

Cisco routers have been vulnerable to a security flaw first announced in 

2008: The flaw could allow unauthenticated access to a router. Even though 

a patch has been released, not all telecommunications networks’ routers 

have been updated. Furthermore, Cross said the Cisco equipment does 

not track failed login attempts or notify an administrator, leaving the devices 

vulnerable to automated password-guessing attacks, and no audit is gen-

erated of the use of the intercept function.
As it is, an ISP employee could potentially monitor installed lawful 
intercept wiretaps and alert the subjects that they are under surveillance, 

according to Cross [GRE10]. Similarly, an employee could establish an 

unauthorized interception against any customer, and the ISP would have no 

audit trail by which to detect the intercept.
Cross pointed out that Cisco is the only major hardware vendor to 
release for public scrutiny its product designs for the lawful intercept func-

tion; he then said that because other companies have not publicized their 
designs, nobody can be sure whether their products are secure.
The vulnerability in this sidebar is phrased tentatively: “could poten-
tially . . .” and “could establish . . .” That word choice indicates we do not 
know if the Cisco equipment has been compromised in that manner. 
However, equipment of Vodafone Greece, another telecommunica-
tions provider, 
was compromised with a similar attack, involving commu-
nications of high-ranking Greek officials, as reported by Vassilis Pervalakis 

and Diomidis Spinellis [PRE07].Vodafone uses equipment manufactured by 

Ericsson, a Swedish manufacturer. Understandably, Ericsson wants to man-

ufacture one hardware and software model that it can sell in many markets, 

so it includes code to implement lawful intercept but deactivates the code 

for a customer that does not buy that package. Vodafone did not obtain that 

add-on. In 2003, Ericsson upgraded the software and inadvertently acti-

vated the intercept code in the version delivered to Vodafone. Although the 

code was there, it did not appear on the user-level interface, so Vodafone 

employees had no way to access it, much less know they had it. This situ-
ation is a perfect example of the trapdoor described in Chapter 3, with all 
the warnings we raised there, as well. And in that same chapter we argued 

against security through obscurity—hoping that nobody would find some-

thing if you just don’t publicize it.
Unknown agents installed a patch in the Ericsson switch software that 
activated the dormant interception code. Furthermore, the agents did so 

in a way that did not generate an audit log, even though interception and 

copying of a call usually creates an audit entry for law enforcement records. 

This code modification was carefully crafted to be undiscovered.
With this code, unknown outsiders were able to listen in on all mobile 
phone conversations of about 100 political officials, including the prime 

minister, his wife, and several cabinet ministers.
The scheme finally came to light in 2004 only when Ericsson distrib-
uted another software patch; because of interaction with the rogue software, 
SIDEBAR 6-3 Continued