444 Chapter 6  
Networksand it prevents sites from learning the user’s physical location. According to 
Bloom-berg BusinessWeek
 of 23 Jan 2014, Tor users range from Iranian activists who eluded 
their government’s censors to transmit images and news during protests following the 

presidential election of 2009, to Chinese citizens who regularly use it to get around 

the country’s stringent limitations 

on Internet content and access. Tor 

also facilitates the so-called dark 

side of the Internet, or Darknet, 

used to implement illegal traffic in 

child pornography, drugs, and sto-

len credit card and identity details.IP Security Protocol Suite (IPsec)
Address space for the Internet is running out. As domain names and equipment prolifer-

ate, the original, over 30-year-old, 32-bit address structure of the Internet is filling up. 

A new structure, called 
IPv6 (version 6 of the IP protocol suite), solves the addressing 
problem. This restructuring also offered an excellent opportunity for the Internet Engi-

neering Task Force (IETF) to address serious security requirements.
As a part of the IPv6 suite, the IP security protocol suite, or 
IPsec, was adopted 
by the IETF. Designed to address fundamental shortcomings such as being subject to 

spoofing, eavesdropping, and session hijacking, the IPsec protocol defines a standard 

means for handling encrypted data. IPsec is implemented at the IP layer (3), so it pro-

tects data produced in all layers above it, in particular, TCP and UDP control informa-

tion, as well as the application data. Therefore, IPsec requires no change to the existing 

large number of TCP and UDP protocols or applications.
IPsec is somewhat similar to SSL, in that it supports authentication and confidenti-
ality in a way that does not necessitate significant change either above it (in applica-

tions) or below it (in the TCP protocols). Like SSL, it was designed to be independent 

of specific cryptographic algorithms 

and to allow the two communicating 

parties to agree on a mutually sup-
ported set of protocols.IPsec Security AssociationThe basis of IPsec is what is called a security association, which is essentially the set of security parameters for a secured communication channel. It is roughly comparable 
to an SSL session. A security association includes
• encryption algorithm and mode (for example, AES)
• encryption key

• encryption parameters, such as the initialization vector
Tor—onion routing—prevents an 
eavesdropper from learning source, 

destination, or content of data in transit 
in a network.IPsec implements encryption and 
authentication in the Internet protocols.
