 Foreword
 xxi  management oversights and operational doctrine and procedures. The poorly under-
stood aspect of security was primarily the software issue with, however, a collateral 

hardware aspect; namely, the risk that it might malfunction—or be penetrated—and 

subvert the proper behavior of software. For the related aspects of communications, 

personnel, and physical security, there was a plethora of rules, regulations, doctrine and 

experience to cover them. It was largely a matter of merging all of it with the hardware/

software aspects to yield an overall secure system and operating environment.
However, the world has now changed and in essential ways. The desk-top computer 
and workstation have appeared and proliferated widely. The Internet is flourishing 

and the reality of a World Wide Web is in place. Networking has exploded and com-

munication among computer systems is the rule, not the exception. Many commercial 

transactions are now web-based; many commercial communities—the financial one in 

particular—have moved into a web posture. The “user” of any computer system can 

literally be anyone in the world. Networking among computer systems is ubiquitous; 

information-system outreach is the goal.The net effect of all of this has been to expose the computer-based information system— 
its hardware, its software, its software processes, its databases, its communications—to 

an environment over which no one—not end-user, not network administrator or system 

owner, not even government—has control. What must be done is to provide appropriate 

technical, procedural, operational and environmental safeguards against threats as they 

might appear or be imagined, embedded in a societally acceptable legal framework.
And appear threats did—from individuals and organizations, national and interna-
tional. The motivations to penetrate systems for evil purpose or to create malicious 

software—generally with an offensive or damaging consequence—vary from personal 

intellectual satisfaction to espionage, to financial reward, to revenge, to civil disobedi-

ence, and to other reasons. Information-system security has moved from a largely self-

contained bounded environment interacting with a generally known and disciplined user 

community to one of worldwide scope with a body of users that may not be known and 

are not necessarily trusted. Importantly, security controls now must deal with circum-

stances over which there is largely no control or expectation of avoiding their impact. 

Computer security, as it has evolved, shares a similarity with liability insurance; they 

each face a threat environment that is known in a very general way and can generate 

attacks over a broad spectrum of possibilities; but the exact details or even time or cer-

tainty of an attack is unknown until an event has occurred.
On the other hand, the modern world thrives on information and its flows; the con-
temporary world, society and institutions cannot function without their computer- 

communication-based information systems. Hence, these systems must be protected in 
all dimensions—technical, procedural, operational, environmental. The system owner 

and its staff have become responsible for protecting the organization’s information 

assets.Progress has been slow, in large part because the threat has not been perceived as real 
or as damaging enough; but also in part because the perceived cost of comprehensive 

information system security is seen as too high compared to the risks—especially the 
financial consequences—of not doing it. Managements, whose support with appropriate 

funding is essential, have been slow to be convinced.
