 Legal Issues and Ethics 
703  Law and computer security are related in several ways. First, international, national, 
state, and city laws can affect privacy and secrecy. These statutes often apply to the 

rights of individuals to keep personal matters private. Second, laws regulate the use, 

development, and ownership of data and programs. Patents, copyrights, and trade 

secrets are legal devices to protect the rights of developers and owners of programs and 

data. Similarly, one aspect of computer security is controlling access to programs and 

data; that access control is supported by these mechanisms of the law. Third, laws affect 

actions that can be taken to protect the secrecy, integrity, and availability of computer 

information and service. These basic concerns in computer security are both strength-

ened and constrained by applicable laws. Thus, legal means interact with other controls 

to establish computer security.
However, the law does not always provide an adequate control. When computer sys-
tems are concerned, the law is slowly evolving because the issues are similar to but not 

the same as those for property rights. Computers are new, compared to houses, land, 

horses, or money. As a consequence, the place of computer systems in law is not yet 

firmly established. As statutes are written and cases decided, the roles of computers 

and the people, data, and processes involved are becoming more defined in the law. 

However, laws do not yet address all improper acts committed with computers. Finally, 

some judges, lawyers, and police officers do not understand computing, so they cannot 

determine how computing relates to other, more established, parts of the law.
The laws dealing with computer security affect programmers, designers, users, and 
maintainers of computing systems and computerized data banks. These laws protect, 

but they also regulate the behavior of people who use computers. Furthermore, com-

puter professionals are among the best-qualified advocates for changing old laws and 

creating new ones regarding computers. Before recommending change, however, pro-

fessionals must understand the current state of computers and the law. Therefore, we 

have three motivations for studying the legal section of this chapter:
• to know what protection the law provides for computers and data
• to appreciate laws that protect the rights of others with respect to computers, 
programs, and data• to understand existing laws as a basis for recommending new laws to protect 
computers, data, and peopleThe next few sections address the following aspects of protection of the security of 
computers.• Protecting computing systems against criminals. 
Computer criminals violate 
the principles of confidentiality, integrity, and availability for computer systems. 

Preventing the violation is better than prosecuting it after the fact. However, 

if other controls fail, legal action may be necessary. In this section we study 

several representative laws to determine what acts are punishable under the law.
• Protecting code and data
. Copyrights, patents, and trade secrets are all forms of 
legal protection that can be applied to programs and, sometimes, data. However, 

we must understand the fundamental differences between the kind of protection 

these three provide and the methods of obtaining that protection.
