xx Foreword
The enabling event was the development within the National Security Agency (NSA) 
of a remote-access time-sharing system with a full set of security access controls, run-
ning on a Univac 494 machine, and serving terminals and users not only within the 

headquarters building at Fort George G. Meade, Maryland, but also worldwide. Fortu-

itously, I knew details of the system.
Persuading two others from RAND to help—Dr. Harold Peterson and Dr. Rein 
Turn—plus Bernard Peters of NSA, I organized a group of papers and presented it 

to the SJCC conference management as a ready-made additional paper session to be 

chaired by me. [1] The conference accepted the offer, and the session was presented at 

the Atlantic City (NJ) Convention Hall in 1967.
Soon thereafter and driven by a request from a defense contractor to include both 
defense classified and business applications concurrently in a single mainframe machine 

functioning in a remote-access mode, the Department of Defense, acting through the 
Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) and later the Defense Science Board 

(DSB), organized a committee, which I chaired, to study the issue of security controls 

for computer systems. The intent was to produce a document that could be the basis for 

formulating a DoD policy position on the matter.
The report of the committee was initially published as a classified document and was 
formally presented to the sponsor (the DSB) in January 1970. It was later declassified 

and republished (by The RAND Corporation) in October 1979. [2] It was widely circu-

lated and became nicknamed “the Ware report.” The report and a historical introduction 

are available on the RAND website. [3]
Subsequently, the United States Air Force (USAF) sponsored another committee 
chaired by James P. Anderson. [4] Its report, published in 1972, recommended a 6-year 

R&D security program totaling some $8M. [5] The USAF responded and funded sev-

eral projects, three of which were to design and implement an operating system with 
security controls for a specific computer.
Eventually these activities led to the “Criteria and Evaluation” program sponsored by 
the NSA. It culminated in the “Orange Book” [6] in 1983 and subsequently its support-
ing array of documents, which were nicknamed “the rainbow series.” [7] Later, in the 

1980s and on into the 1990s, the subject became an international one leading to the ISO 
standard known as the “Common Criteria.” [8]
It is important to understand the context in which system security was studied in the 
early decades. The defense establishment had a long history of protecting classified 

information in document form. It had evolved a very elaborate scheme for compart-

menting material into groups, sub-groups and super-groups, each requiring a specific 

personnel clearance and need-to-know as the basis for access. [9] It also had a centuries-

long legacy of encryption technology and experience for protecting classified informa-

tion in transit. Finally, it understood the personnel problem and the need to establish the 

trustworthiness of its people. And it certainly understood the physical security matter.
Thus, the computer security issue, as it was understood in the 1960s and even later, 
was how to create in a computer system a group of access controls that would imple-

ment or emulate the processes of the prior paper world, plus the associated issues of 

protecting such software against unauthorized change, subversion and illicit use, and 

of embedding the entire system in a secure physical environment with appropriate 
