 Section 13.2  Economics 
833  For example, they have examined the effects of basing price on the number and kind 
of previous interactions with customers, as described in Chapter 9. They found that “if 

consumer valuations change for subsequent purchases, perhaps due to the provision 

of personalized enhanced services, the seller may find it profitable to condition prices 

on purchase history.” [ACQ05] Many researchers are interested in the balance among 

personal, business, and societal costs and benefits. On his website, Acquisti asks, “Is 

there a sweet spot that satisfies the interests of all parties?” (http://www.heinz.cmu 

.edu/~acquisti/economics-privacy.htm)
Economics and IntegrityMany researchers are investigating the economic trade-offs involved in sharing infor-
mation about vulnerabilities. Eric Rescorla [RES04] explains that because there are 

so many flaws in large software products, the removal of a single flaw makes no real 

difference; a malicious actor will simply find another flaw to exploit. He suggests that 

disclosure of a flaw’s presence before it is patched encourages the malicious behavior 

in the first place. However, Ashish Arora and Rahul Telang [ARO05] argue in favor of 

disclosure. Their models suggest that without disclosure, there is no incentive for soft-

ware vendors to find and patch the problems. Although disclosure increases the number 

of attacks, the vendors respond rapidly to each disclosure, and the number of reported 

flaws decreases over time. Interestingly, their analysis of real data reveals that open 

source projects fix problems more quickly than do proprietary vendors, and large com-

panies fix them more quickly than do small ones. 
Economics and RegulationThere is always heated argument between those who think the marketplace will eventu-
ally address and solve its own problems, and those who want a government entity to 

step in and regulate in some way. In security, these arguments arise over issues like 

spam, digital rights management, and securing the critical information infrastructure. 
Many researchers are investigating aspects of the cyber marketplace to see whether 

regulation is needed.
Consider spam: If most people had a highly effective spam filter, almost all spam 
would be filtered out before it appeared in the inbox, so the usefulness of spam would 

be greatly reduced to the sender and the volume of spam would therefore drop. In a 

marketplace, when some (but not all) members take an action that benefits everyone, 

the ones who do not take the action are said to get a 
free ride
. For example, if most 
people are vaccinated for an illness, then those who choose not to be vaccinated still 

benefit from the slowed progress of the disease because the disease does not spread 

rapidly through the vaccinated majority. In the same way, market regulation—requiring 

all users to employ a spam filter—could rid the world of spam. But lack of regulation, 

or some degree of free riding, might be good enough. Hal Varian has been investigating 

the effects of free riding on overall system reliability.
Many researchers investigating spam invoke economic models to suggest market-
based solutions to reducing unwanted electronic mail. For example, paying a small 

price for each email message—called a micropayment—would generate negligible 
