50 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
150,000 words in a good collegiate dictionary, ignoring length. By picking one 
of the 99.95 percent nonwords, you force the attacker to use a longer brute-force 

search instead of the abbreviated dictionary search.
• Use a string you can remember. 
Password choice is a double bind. To remember 
the password easily, you want one that has special meaning to you. However, 

you don’t want someone else to be able to guess this special meaning. One 

easy-to-remember password is UcnB2s. That unlikely looking jumble is a sim-

ple transformation of “you can never be too secure.” The first letters of words 

from a song, a few letters from different words of a private phrase, or something 

involving a memorable basketball score are examples of reasonable passwords. 

But don’t be too obvious. Password-cracking tools also test replacements like 

0 (zero) for o or O (letter “oh”) and 1 (one) for l (letter “ell”) or $ for S (letter 
“ess”). So I10v3U is already in the search file.
• Use variants for multiple passwords. 
With accounts, websites, and subscrip-
tions, an individual can easily amass 50 or 100 passwords, which is clearly too 

many to remember. Unless you use a trick. Start with a phrase as in the previous 

suggestion: Ih1b2s (I have one brother, two sisters). Then append some patterns 

involving the first few vowels and consonants of the entity for the password: 

Ih1b2sIvs for vIsa, Ih1b2sAfc for fAcebook, and so forth.• Change the password regularly. 
Even if you have no reason to suspect that 
someone has compromised the password, you should change it from time to 

time. A penetrator may break a password system by obtaining an old list or 

working exhaustively on an encrypted list.
• Don’t write it down. 
Note: This time-honored advice is relevant only if physi-
cal security is a serious risk. People who have accounts on many machines and 

servers, and with many applications or sites, may have trouble remembering 

all the access codes. Setting all codes the same or using insecure but easy-to-

remember passwords may be more risky than writing passwords on a reasonably 

well-protected list. (Obviously, you should not tape your PIN to your bank card 

or post your password on your computer screen.)
• Don’t tell anyone else. 
The easiest attack is social engineering, in which the 
attacker contacts the system’s administrator or a user to elicit the password in 

some way. For example, the attacker may phone a user, claim to be “system 

administration,” and ask the user to verify the user’s password. Under no cir-

cumstances should you ever give out your private password; legitimate admin-

istrators can circumvent your password if need be, and others are merely trying 

to deceive you.
These principles lead to solid password selection, but they lead to a different prob-
lem: People choose simple passwords because they have to create and remember so 

many passwords. Bank accounts, email access, library services, numerous websites, 

and other applications all seem to require a password. We cannot blame users for being 

tempted to use one simple password for all of them when the alternative is trying to 

remember dozens if not hundreds of strong passwords, as discussed in Sidebar 2-4.
