 Section 3.3  Countermeasures 
197  We organize this section by who must take action: users or developers, and then we add 
a few suggestions that seem appealing but simply do not work.
Countermeasures for Users
Users bear the most harm from malware infection, so users have to implement the first 

line of protection. Users can do this by being skeptical of all code, with the degree of 

skepticism rising as the source of the code becomes less trustworthy.
User Vigilance
The easiest control against malicious code is hygiene: not engaging in behavior that 
permits malicious code contamination. The two components of hygiene are avoiding 

points of contamination and blocking avenues of vulnerability.
To avoid contamination, you could simply not use your computer systems—not a 
realistic choice in today’s world. But, as with preventing colds and the flu, there are sev-

eral techniques for building a reasonably safe community for electronic contact, includ-

ing the following:
• Use only commercial software acquired from reliable, well-established vendors
. There is always a chance that you might receive a virus from a large manufac-

turer with a name everyone would recognize. However, such enterprises have 

significant reputations that could be seriously damaged by even one bad inci-

dent, so they go to some degree of trouble to keep their products virus free and 

to patch any problem-causing code right away. Similarly, software distribution 

companies will be careful about products they handle.
• Test all new software on an isolated computer
. If you must use software from a 
questionable source, test the software first on a computer that is not connected 

to a network and contains no sensitive or important data. Run the software and 

look for unexpected behavior, even simple behavior such as unexplained figures 

on the screen. Test the computer with a copy of an up-to-date virus scanner cre-

ated before the suspect program is run. Only if the program passes these tests 
should you install it on a less isolated machine.• Open attachments—and other potentially infected data files—only when you 
know them to be safe. What constitutes “safe” is up to you, as you have prob-
ably already learned in this chapter. Certainly, an attachment from an unknown 

source is of questionable safety. You might also distrust an attachment from a 

known source but with a peculiar message or description.
• Install software—and other potentially infected executable code files—only 
when you really, really know them to be safe.
 When a software package asks to 
install software on your system (including plug-ins or browser helper objects), 

be really suspicious.• Recognize that any web site can be potentially harmful.
 You might reasonably 
assume that sites run by and for hackers are risky, as are sites serving pornog-

raphy, scalping tickets, or selling contraband. You might also be wary of sites 

located in certain countries; Russia, China, Brazil, Korea, and India are often 
