698 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsCloud computing carries risks; for example, if the cloud provider goes out of busi-
ness or the user defaults on the contract with the provider, access to the user’s data may 

be in jeopardy. And the user gives up significant control over data, which has implica-

tions for highly sensitive data. Nevertheless, cloud computing can provide automatic 

redundancy that overcomes failing to perform backups at critical times.
Cold SiteDepending on the nature of the computation, it may be important to be able to quickly 
recover from a crisis and resume computation. A bank, for example, might be able to tol-

erate a four-hour loss of computing facilities during a fire, but it could not tolerate a ten-

month period to rebuild a destroyed facility, acquire new equipment, and resume operation.
Most computer manufacturers have several spare machines of most models that can 
be delivered to any location within 24 hours in the event of a real crisis. Sometimes the 

machine will come straight from assembly; other times the system will have been in use 

at a local office. Machinery is seldom the hard part of the problem. Rather, the hard part 

is deciding where to put the equipment in order to begin a temporary operation.
A cold site or 
shell is a facility with power and cooling available, in which a comput-
ing system can be installed to begin immediate operation. Some companies maintain 

their own cold sites, and other cold sites can be leased from disaster recovery compa-

nies. These sites usually come with cabling, fire prevention equipment, separate office 

space, telephone access, and other features. Typically, a computing center can have 

equipment installed and resume operation from a cold site within a week of a disaster.
Hot SiteIf the application is critical or if the equipment needs are highly specialized, a hot 
site may be more appropriate than a cold site. A hot site is a computer facility with an 
installed and ready-to-run computing system. The system has peripherals, telecommuni-

cations lines, power supply, and even personnel ready to operate on short notice. Some 

companies maintain their own replacements; other companies subscribe to a service that 

has available one or more locations with installed and running computers. To activate a 

hot site, the team has only to load software and data from offsite backup copies.
Numerous services offer hot sites equipped with every popular brand and model of 
system. They provide diagnostic and system technicians, connected communications 

lines, and an operations staff. The hot site staff also assists with relocation by arranging 

transportation and housing, obtaining needed blank forms, and acquiring office space.
Because these hot sites serve as backups for many customers, most of whom will not 
need the service, the annual cost to any one customer is fairly low. The cost structure is like 

insurance: The likelihood of an auto accident is low, so the premium is reasonable, even for 

a policy that covers the complete replacement cost of an expensive car. Notice, however, 

that the first step in being able to use a service of this type is a complete and timely backup.
Physical Security RecapBy no means have we covered all of physical security in this brief introduction. Profes-

sionals become experts at individual aspects, such as fire control or power provision. 
