532 Chapter 7  
DatabasesStatistical Suppression
Because the attacks to obtain data used features of statistics, it may not be surprising that statistics also give some clues to countering those attacks.
Limited Response Suppression Limited response suppression
 eliminates certain low-frequency elements from being 
displayed. It is not sufficient to delete them, however, if their values can also be inferred. 

To see why, consider Table 7-11, which shows counts of students by dorm and sex.
The data in this table suggest that the cells with counts of 1 should be suppressed; their counts are too revealing. But it does no good to suppress the Male–Holmes cell 

when the value 1 can be determined by subtracting Female–Holmes (2) from the total 

(3) to determine 1, as shown in Table 7-12.
SIDEBAR 7-5 Continueddo not return such forms. And there is always the possibility that a form 
would be lost in the mail. For the 2000 census the U.S. Census Bureau pro-

posed using statistical sampling and estimative techniques to approximate 

the population. With these techniques they would select certain areas in 

which to take two counts: first, a regular count, and second, an especially 

diligent search for every person residing in the area. In this way the bureau 

could determine the “undercount,” the number of people missed in the reg-

ular count. They could then use this undercount factor to adjust the regular 

count in other similar areas and thus obtain a more accurate, although less 

precise, count.
The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that statistical sampling techniques 
were acceptable for determining revenue distribution to the states but not 

for allocating representatives in Congress. As a result, the census can 

never get an exact, accurate count of the number of people in the United 
States or even in a major U.S. city. At the same time, concerns about pre-

cision and privacy prevent the Census Bureau from releasing information 

about any particular individual living in the United States.
Does this lack of accuracy and exactness mean that the census is not useful? No. We may not know exactly how many people live in Washing-

ton D.C. or the exact information about a particular resident of Washington 

D.C., but we can use the census information to characterize most residents 

of Washington D.C. For example, we can determine the maximum, min-

imum, mean, and median ages or incomes, and we can investigate the 

relationships among characteristics, such as between education level and 

income for the population surveyed. Researchers are well aware that cen-

sus data are slightly inaccurate. Furthermore, knowing the kinds of people 

not surveyed, researchers can understand the direction of some errors. 

(For example, if unemployed people are underrepresented in the results, 

mean income might be too high.) So accuracy and precision help to reflect 

the balance between protection and need to know.
