662 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsThe focus of the business continuity plan is to keep the business going while some-
one else addresses the crisis. That is, the business continuity plan does not include call-

ing the fire department or evacuating the building, important though those steps are. 

The focus of a business continuity 

plan is the business
 and how to keep 
it functioning to the degree possible 

in the situation. Handling the emer-

gency is someone else’s problem.
Now we turn to a different plan that deals specifically with computer crises.
10.3 HANDLING INCIDENTS
The network grinds almost to a halt. A pop-up advises you to patch an application 

immediately. A file disappears. An unusual name appears on the list of active processes. 

Are any of these situations normal? A concern? Something to report, and if yes, to 

whom? Any one of these situations could be a first sign of a security incident, or noth-

ing at all. What should you do?
Individuals must take responsibility for their own environments. But students in a 
university or employees of a company or government agency sometimes assume it is 

someone else’s responsibility. Or they don’t want to bother a busy operations staff with 

something that may be nothing at all.Organizations develop a capability to handle incidents from receiving the first report 
and investigating it. In this section we consider incident handling practices.
Incident Response PlansA (security) incident response plan 
tells the staff how to deal with a security incident. 
In contrast to the business continuity plan, the goal of incident response is handling 

the current security incident, without direct regard for the business issues. The security 

incident may at the same time be a business catastrophe, as addressed by the business 

continuity plan. But as a specific security event, it might be less than catastrophic (that 

is, it may not severely interrupt business) but could be a serious breach of security, 

such as a hacker attack or a case of 

internal fraud. An incident could be 

a single event, a series of events, or 

an ongoing problem.An incident response plan should • define what constitutes an 
incident• identify who is responsible for 
taking charge 
of the situation• describe the plan of 
actionThe plan usually has three phases: advance planning, triage, and running the inci-
dent. A fourth phase, review, is useful after the situation abates so that this incident can 

lead to improvement for future incidents.
A business continuity plan focuses on 
business needs.An incident response plan details how 

to address security incidents of all types.
