 Section 3.3  Countermeasures 
201  looking for signs of the Code Red worm can look for a pattern containing the following 
characters:/default.ida?NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
%u9090%u6858%ucbd3
%u7801%u9090%u6858%ucdb3%u7801%u9090%u6858
%ucbd3%u7801%u9090
%u9090%u8190%u00c3%u0003%ub00%u531b%u53ff
%u0078%u0000%u00=a HTTP/1.0When the scanner recognizes a known virus’s pattern, it can then block the virus, 
inform the user, and deactivate or 

remove the virus. However, a virus 

scanner is effective only if it has 

been kept up-to-date with the latest 

information on current viruses.Code Analysis Another approach to detecting an infection is to analyze the code to determine what it does, 

how it propagates and perhaps even where it originated. That task is difficult, however.
The first difficulty with analyzing code is that the researcher normally has only the 
end product to look at. As Figure 3-24 shows, a programmer writes code in some high-

level language, such as C, Java, or C#. That code is converted by a compiler or inter-

preter into intermediate object code; a linker adds code of standard library routines and 

packages the result into machine code that is executable. The higher-level language 

code uses meaningful variable names, comments, and documentation techniques to 

make the code meaningful, at least to the programmer.
During compilation, all the structure and documentation are lost; only the raw 
instructions are preserved. To load a program for execution, a linker merges called 

library routines and performs address translation. If the code is intended for propaga-

tion, the attacker may also invoke a packager, a routine that strips out other identifying 

information and minimizes the size of the combined code block.In case of an infestation, an analyst may be called in. The analyst starts with code 
that was actually executing, active in computer memory, but that may represent only a 

portion of the actual malicious package. Writers interested in stealth clean up, purging 

memory or disk of unnecessary instructions that were needed once, only to install the 
infectious code. In any event, analysis starts from machine instructions. Using a tool 

called a disassembler, the analyst can convert machine-language binary instructions to 

their assembly language equivalents, but the trail stops there. These assembly language 

instructions have none of the informative documentation, variable names, structure, 

labels or comments, and the assembler language representation of a program is much 
less easily understood than its higher-level language counterpart. Thus, although the 
Virus writers and antivirus tool makers 

engage in a battle to conceal patterns 

and find those regularities.
