734 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicsapplied to digital objects because old forms must be made to fit new objects; for these 
situations, however, cases being decided now are establishing legal precedents. But 

crimes involving computers are an area of the law that is even less clear than the other 

areas. In this section we study computer crime and consider why new laws are needed 

to address some of its problems.Why a Separate Category for Computer Crime Is NeededCrimes can be organized into certain recognized categories, including 
murder
, robbery
, and littering. We do not separate crime into categories for different weapons, such as 
gun crime or 
knife crime, but we separate crime victims into categories, depending on 
whether they are 
people or 
other objects. Nevertheless, driving into your neighbor’s 
picture window can be as bad as driving into his evergreen tree or pet sheep. Let us look 

at an example to see why computer crime categories are not sufficient and why we need 

special laws relating to computers as subjects and objects of crime.
Rules of Property
Donn Parker and Susan Nycom [PAR84]
 describe the theft of a trade secret proprietary software package. The theft occurred across state boundaries by means of a telephone 

line; this interstate aspect is important because it means that the crime is subject to 

federal law as well as state law. The California Supreme Court ruled that this software 

acquisition was not theft because
Implicit in the definition of “article” in Section 499c(a) is that it must be something 
tangi-ble . . . Based on the record here, the defendant did not carry any tangible thing . . . from 
the computer to his terminal unless the impulses which defendant allegedly caused to be 

transmitted over the telephone wire could be said to be tangible. 
It is the opinion of the 
Court that such impulses are not tangible and hence do not constitute an “article
.”The legal system has explicit rules about what constitutes property. Generally, prop-
erty is tangible, unlike magnetic impulses. For example, unauthorized use of a neigh-

bor’s lawn mower constitutes theft, even if the lawn mower was returned in essentially 

the same condition as it was when taken. To a computer professional, taking a copy of 

a software package without permission is clear-cut theft. Fortunately, laws evolve to fit 

the times, and this interpretation from the 1980s has been refined so that bits are now 

recognized items of property, even if you cannot hold a bit in your hand.
A similar problem arises with computer services. We would generally agree that 
unauthorized access to a computing system is a crime. For example, if a stranger enters 

your garden and walks around, even if nothing is touched or damaged, the act is con-

sidered trespassing. However, because access by computer does not involve a physical 

object, not all courts punish it as a serious crime.Rules of EvidenceComputer printouts have been used as evidence in many successful prosecutions. Fre-
quently used are computer records generated in the ordinary course of operation, such 
as system audit logs. 