 Section 10.5  Dealing with Disaster 
689  These variations can be destructive to sensitive electronic equipment, however. Sim-
ple devices called “surge suppressors” filter spikes from an electric line, blocking fluc-

tuations that would affect computers. These devices cost from $20 to $100; they should 

be installed on every computer, printer, or other connected component. More sensitive 

models are typically used on larger systems.
As mentioned previously, a lightning strike can send a surge through a power line. To 
increase protection, personal computer users usually unplug their machines when they 

are not in use, as well as during electrical storms. Another possible source of destruc-

tion is lightning striking a telephone line. Because the power surge can travel along the 

phone line and into the computer or peripherals, the phone line should be disconnected 
from the modem during storms. These simple measures may save much work as well as 

valuable equipment.
Human Vandals
Because computers and their media are sensitive to a variety of disruptions, a vandal 

can destroy hardware, software, and data. Human attackers may be disgruntled employ-

ees, bored operators, saboteurs, people seeking excitement, or unwitting bumblers. If 

physical access is easy to obtain, crude attacks using axes or bricks can be very effec-

tive. One man recently shot a computer that he claimed had been in the shop for repairs 

many times without success. 
Physical attacks by unskilled vandals are often easy to prevent; a guard can stop 
someone approaching a computer installation with a threatening or dangerous object. 
When physical access is difficult, more subtle attacks can be tried, resulting in quite 

serious damage. People with modest technical knowledge of a system can short-circuit 

a computer with a car key or disable a disk drive with a paper clip. These items are not 

likely to attract attention until the attack is completed.
Unauthorized Access and UseFilms and newspaper reports exaggerate the ease of gaining access to a computing sys-
tem. Still, as distributed computing systems become more prevalent, protecting the sys-

tem from outside access becomes more difficult and more important. Interception is a 

form of unauthorized access; the attacker intercepts data and either breaks confidential-

ity or prevents the data from being read or used by others. In this context, interception 

is a passive attack. But we must also be concerned about active interception, in the 

sense that the attacker can change or insert data before allowing it to continue to its 

destination.TheftStealing a large mainframe computer or a rack of servers is challenging. Not only is 
carrying it away difficult, but finding a willing buyer and arranging installation and 

maintenance also require special assistance. However, printed reports and removable 

data devices can be carried easily. If the theft is done well, the loss may not be detected 

for some time.