18 Chapter 1  
IntroductionSIDEBAR 1-1 ContinuedDonn Parker [PAR98] has studied hacking and computer crime for 
many years. He states “hackers are characterized by an immature, exces-

sively idealistic attitude . . . They delight in presenting themselves to the 
media as idealistic do-gooders, champions of the underdog.”
Consider the following excerpt from an interview [SHA00] with “Mix-
ter,” the German programmer who admitted he was the author of a wide-

spread piece of attack software called Tribal Flood Network (TFN) and its 

sequel TFN2K:Q: Why did you write the software?
A: I first heard about Trin00 [another piece of attack software] in July 
’99 and I considered it as interesting from a technical perspective, 

but also potentially powerful in a negative way. I knew some facts of 

how Trin00 worked, and since I didn’t manage to get Trin00 sources 

or binaries at that time, I wrote my own server-client network that was 

capable of performing denial of service.
Q: Were you involved . . . in any of the recent high-profile attacks?
A: No. The fact that I authored these tools does in no way mean that I 
condone their active use. I must admit I was quite shocked to hear 

about the latest attacks. It seems that the attackers are pretty clueless 

people who misuse powerful resources and tools for generally harm-

ful and senseless activities just “because they can.”Notice that from some information about denial-of-service attacks, he 
wrote his own server-client network and then a sophisticated attack. But he 

was “quite shocked” to hear they were used for harm.
More research is needed before we can define the profile of a hacker. 
And even more work will be needed to extend that profile to the profile of 

a (malicious) attacker. Not all hackers become attackers; some hackers 

become extremely dedicated and conscientious system administrators, 

developers, or security experts. But some psychologists see in AS the rudi-

ments of a hacker’s profile.
IndividualsOriginally, computer attackers were individuals, acting with motives of fun, challenge, 
or revenge. Early attackers acted alone. Two of the most well known among them are 

Robert Morris Jr., the Cornell University graduate student who brought down the Inter-

net in 1988 [SPA89], and Kevin Mitnick, the man who broke into and stole data from 

dozens of computers, including the San Diego Supercomputer Center [MAR95].
Organized, Worldwide Groups
More recent attacks have involved groups of people. An attack against the government 
of the country of Estonia (described in more detail in Chapter 13) is believed to have 

been an uncoordinated outburst from a loose federation of attackers from around the 

world. Kevin Poulsen [POU05] quotes Tim Rosenberg, a research professor at George 
