714 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsIn 1981, two cases (
Diamond v. Bradley
 and 
Diamond v. Diehr
) won patents for 
a process that used computer software, a well-known algorithm, temperature sensors, 

and a computer to calculate the time to cure rubber seals. The court upheld the right to 

a patent because the claim was not for the software or the algorithm alone, but for the 

process that happened to use the software as one of its steps. An unfortunate inference 

is that using the software without using the other patented steps of the process would 

not be infringement.Since 1981 the patent law has expanded to include computer software, recogniz-
ing that algorithms, like processes and formulas, are inventions. The Patent Office has 

issued thousands of software patents since these cases. But because of the time and 

expense involved in obtaining and maintaining a patent, this form of protection may be 

unacceptable for a small-scale software writer.
Trade Secrets
A trade secret is unlike a patent or copyright in that it must be kept a 
secret. 
The infor-
mation has value only as a secret, 

and an infringer is one who divulges 

the secret. Once divulged, the infor-

mation usually cannot be made 

secret again.Characteristics of Trade Secrets
A trade secret
 is information that gives one company a competitive edge over others. 
For example, the formula for a soft drink is a trade secret, as is a mailing list of custom-

ers or information about a product due to be announced in a few months.
The distinguishing characteristic of a trade secret is that it must always be kept 
secret. Employees and outsiders who have access to the secret must be required not to 

divulge the secret. The owner must take precautions to protect the secret, such as storing 

it in a safe, encrypting it in a computer file, or requiring employees to sign a statement 

that they will not disclose the secret.
If someone obtains a trade secret improperly and profits from it, the owner can recover 
profits, damages, lost revenues, and legal costs. The court will do whatever it can to 

return the holder to the same competitive position it had while the information was secret 

and may award damages to compensate for lost sales. However, trade secret protection 

evaporates in the case of independent discovery. If someone else happens to discover the 

secret independently, there is no infringement and trade secret rights are gone.
Reverse EngineeringAnother way trade secret protection can vanish is by reverse engineering. Suppose a 
secret is the way to pack tissues in a cardboard box to make one pop up as another is 
A trade secret is a secret valuable to a 

business owner.
