96 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
The algorithm begins by encrypting the plaintext as blocks of 64 bits. The key is 
64 bits long, but in fact it can be any 56-bit number. (The extra 8 bits are often used 

as check digits but do not affect encryption in normal implementations. Thus we say 

that DES uses a key, the strength of 

which is 56 bits.) The user can pick 

a new key at will any time there is 

uncertainty about the security of the 
old key.
DES uses only standard arithmetic and logical operations on binary data up to 
64 bits long, so it is suitable for implementation in software on most current computers. 

Encrypting with DES involves 16 iterations, each employing replacing blocks of bits 

(called a substitution step), shuffling the bits (called a permutation step), and mingling 

in bits from the key (called a key transformation). Although complex, the process is 

table driven and repetitive, making it suitable for implementation on a single-purpose 

chip. In fact, several such chips are available on the market for use as basic components 

in devices that use DES encryption in an application.
Double and Triple DES
As you know, computing power has increased rapidly over the last few decades, and it 
promises to continue to do so. For this reason, the DES 56-bit key length is not long 

enough for some people’s comfort. Since the 1970s, researchers and practitioners have 

been interested in a longer-key version of DES. But we have a problem: The DES algo-

rithm design is fixed to a 56-bit key.
Double DESTo address the discomfort, some researchers suggest using a double encryption for 
greater secrecy. The double encryption works in the following way. Take two keys, 
k1 and k2, and perform two encryptions, one on top of the other: 
E(k2, E(k1,m)). In theory, 
this approach should multiply the difficulty of breaking the encryption, just as two locks 

are harder to pick than one.Unfortunately, that assumption is false. Ralph Merkle and Martin Hellman [MER81] 
showed that two encryptions are scarcely better than one: two encryptions with differ-

ent 56-bit keys are equivalent in work factor to one encryption with a 57-bit key. Thus, 

the double encryption adds only a small amount of extra work for the attacker who is 

trying to infer the key(s) under which a piece of ciphertext was encrypted. As we soon 

describe, some 56-bit DES keys have been derived in just days; two times days is still 

days, when the hope was to add months if not years of work for the second encryption. 

Alas, double DES adds essentially no more security.
Triple DES
However, a simple trick does indeed enhance the security of DES. Using three keys 
adds significant strength.
The so-called triple DES
 procedure is 
C  E(k3, E(k2, E(k1,m))). That is, you 
encrypt with one key, then with the second, and finally with a third. This process gives a 
DES encrypts 64-bit blocks by using a 
56-bit key.
