256 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
Is a web bug malicious? Probably not, although some people would claim that the 
unannounced tracking is a harmful invasion of privacy. But the invisible image is also 

useful in more malicious activities, as described next.
ClickjackingSuppose you are at a gasoline filling station with three buttons to press to select the 
grade of fuel you want. The station owner, noticing that most people buy the lowest-

priced fuel but that his greatest profit comes from the highest-priced product, decides to 

pull a trick. He pastes stickers over the buttons for the lowest and highest prices saying, 

respectively, “high performance” (on the lowest-priced button) and “economy” (on the 

expensive, high-profit button). Thus, some people will inadvertently push the economy/

high-priced button and unwittingly generate a higher profit. Unfair and deceptive, yes, 

but if the owner is unscrupulous, the technique would work; however, most businesses 

would not try that, because it is unethical and might lose customers. But computer 

attackers do not care about ethics or loss of customers, so a version of this technique 

becomes a computer attack.Consider a scenario in which an attacker wants to seduce a victim into doing some-
thing. As you have seen in several examples in this book, planting a Trojan horse is 

not difficult. But application programs and the operating system make a user confirm 

actions that are potentially dangerous—the equivalent of a gas pump display that would 

ask “are you sure
 you want to buy the most expensive fuel?” The trick is to get the user 
to agree without realizing it.As shown in Figure 4-13, the computer attack uses an image pasted over, that is, 
displayed on top of, another image. We are all familiar with the click box “Do you 

want to delete this file? [Yes] [No].” 
Clickjacking is a technique that essentially causes 
that prompt box to slide around so that [Yes] is always under the mouse. The attacker 

also makes this box transparent, so 

the victim is unaware of clicking 

anything. Furthermore, a second, 

visible image is pasted underneath, 
so the victim thinks the box being 
Clickjacking: Tricking a user into clicking 

a link by disguising what the link 
points toFIGURE 4-13 ClickjackingDo you want to performthis dangerous act?[Yes]       [No]For a Free PrizeClick[Here]