516 Chapter 7  
Databaseswith T is a shadow variable used only in this transaction. The steps of the intent phase 
can be repeated an unlimited number of times without affecting the integrity of the 

database.Once the DBMS begins the commit phase, it writes a COMMIT flag. When this 
flag is set, the DBMS will not perform any steps of the intent phase. Intent steps can-

not be performed after committing because database values are modified in the commit 

phase. Notice, however, that the steps of the commit phase can be repeated an unlimited 

number of times, again with no negative effect on the correctness of the values in the 

database.The one remaining flaw in this logic occurs if the system fails after writing the 
“transaction complete” message in the log but before clearing the commit flag in the 

database. It is a simple matter to work backward through the transaction log to find 

completed transactions for which the commit flag is still set and to clear those flags.Redundancy/Internal Consistency
Many DBMSs maintain additional information to detect internal inconsistencies in data. 

The additional information ranges from a few check bits to duplicate or shadow fields, 

depending on the importance of the data.Error Detection and Correction Codes
One form of redundancy is error detection and correction codes, such as parity bits, 
Hamming codes [HAM50], and cyclic redundancy checks. (We introduce such codes in 

Chapter 2.) These codes can be applied to single fields, records, or the entire database. 

Each time a data item is placed in the database, the appropriate check codes are com-

puted and stored; each time a data item is retrieved, a similar check code is computed 

and compared to the stored value. If the values are unequal, they signify to the DBMS 

that an error has occurred in the database. Some of these codes point out the place of 
the error; others show precisely what the correct value should be. The more information 

provided, the more space required to store the codes.
Shadow FieldsEntire attributes or entire records can be duplicated in a database. If the data are irrepro-
ducible, this second copy can provide an immediate replacement if an error is detected. 

Obviously, redundant fields require substantial storage space.
RecoveryIn addition to these error correction processes, a DBMS can maintain a log of user 

accesses, particularly changes. In the event of a failure, the database is reloaded from a 

backup copy and all later changes are then applied from the audit log.
