 Section 1.2  Threats 
7  your listed recipients; you don’t want them broadcast to other people. And when you 
write an essay, you expect that no one can copy it without your permission.
These three aspects, confidentiality, integrity, and availability, make your computer 
valuable to you. But viewed from another perspective, they are three possible ways 

to make it less valuable, that is, to cause you harm. If someone steals your computer, 

scrambles data on your disk, or looks at your private data files, the value of your com-

puter has been diminished or your computer use has been harmed. These characteristics 

are both basic security properties and the objects of security threats.We can define these three properties as follows.
• availability: 
the ability of a system to ensure that an asset can be used by any 
authorized parties• integrity: the ability of a system to ensure that an asset is modified only by 
authorized parties• confidentiality: 
the ability of a system to ensure that an asset is viewed only by 
authorized partiesThese three properties, hallmarks of solid security, appear in the literature as early as 
James P. Anderson’s essay on computer security [AND73] and reappear frequently in 

more recent computer security papers and discussions. Taken together (and rearranged), 

the properties are called the C-I-A triad or the security triad. ISO 7498-2 [ISO89] 
adds to them two more properties that are desirable, particularly in communication 

networks:
• authentication: the ability of a system to confirm the identity of a sender
• nonrepudiation 
or accountability: 
the ability of a system to confirm that a 
sender cannot convincingly deny having sent something
The U.S. Department of Defense [DOD85] adds auditability: the ability of a system to trace all actions related to a given asset. The C-I-A triad forms a foundation for think-

ing about security. Authenticity and nonrepudiation extend security notions to network 

communications, and auditability is important in establishing individual accountability 

for computer activity. In this book we generally use the C-I-A triad as our security 

taxonomy so that we can frame threats, vulnerabilities, and controls in terms of the 

C-I-A properties affected. We high-

light one of these other properties 

when it is relevant to a particular 

threat we are describing. For now, 

we focus on just the three elements 
of the triad.What can happen to harm the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of computer 
assets? If a thief steals your computer, you no longer have access, so you have lost 

availability; furthermore, if the thief looks at the pictures or documents you have stored, 

your confidentiality is compromised. And if the thief changes the content of your music 

files but then gives them back with your computer, the integrity of your data has been 

harmed. You can envision many scenarios based around these three properties.
C-I-A triad: confidentiality, integrity, 

availability