 Section 10.5  Dealing with Disaster 
691  Preventing PortabilityPortability is a mixed blessing. We can now carry around in our pockets devices that 

provide as much computing power as mainframes did twenty years ago. Portability is 

in fact a necessity in devices such as tablets and mobile phones. And we do not want to 

permanently affix our personal computers to our desks, in case they need to be removed 

for repair or replacement. Thus, we need to find ways to enable portability without 

promoting theft.One antitheft device is a pad connected to cable, similar to those used to secure bicy-
cles. The pad is glued to the desktop with extremely strong adhesive. The cables loop 

around the equipment and are locked in place. Releasing the lock permits the equipment 

to be moved. An alternative is to couple the base of the equipment to a secure pad, in 

much the same way that televisions are locked in place in hotel rooms. Yet a third pos-

sibility is a large, lockable cabinet in which the personal computer and its peripherals 

are kept when they are not in use. Some people argue that cables, pads, and cabinets 

are unsightly and, worse, they make the equipment inconvenient to use. And they are 

incompatible with portable devices such as tablets and laptops.
Another alternative is to use movement-activated alarm devices when the equipment 
is not in use. Small alarms are available that can be locked to a laptop or case. When 

movement is detected, a loud, annoying whine or whistle warns that the equipment has 

been disturbed. Such an alarm is especially useful when laptops must be left in meet-

ing or presentation rooms overnight or during a break. In Sidebar 10-8 we describe the 

magnitude of the problem of lost and stolen laptops. Used in concert with guards, the 
alarms can offer reasonable protection at reasonable cost.
SIDEBAR 10-8 Laptops Fly Away at Airports
Ponemon Institute conducted a survey of laptop loss at airports in the 
United States and Europe [PON08]. At 36 of the largest U.S. airports they 

found an average of 286 laptops are lost, misplaced, or stolen 
per week. For eight large European airports, the figure is even larger: 474. Of these, 

33 percent were recovered either before or after the flight in the United 

States and 43 percent in Europe.
Travelers reported feeling rushed at the airport (70 percent), carrying 
too many items (69 percent), and worrying about flight delays (60 percent) 

as contributing factors to the loss of a computer. Among those losing com-

puters, 53 percent (United States) and 49 percent (Europe) said the lost 

devices contained sensitive data, and 42 percent of both samples indi-

cated the data were not backed up. Worse, 65 percent (United States) and 

55 percent (Europe) had not taken steps to protect the sensitive data on 

the laptops.Among Ponemon’s recommendations for computer users was to think 
twice about information carried on a computer: Business travelers should 

consider whether it is really necessary to have so much data with them.
