396 Chapter 6  
NetworksThis attack is significant because it demonstrates a previously unknown vulnerabil-
ity. However, it results only in successfully certain packets in a WPA stream. It does not 

undermine WPA or TKIP in general and, more importantly, it is not effective against 

WPA2 using the AES algorithm. 
Conclusion: WPA Is Adequately Secure
The vulnerabilities identified occur in restricted cases and do not affect most users or 
WPA. Care in choosing an encryption key can ensure that it is long and random enough 

to be immune from guessing attacks.More serious than any weaknesses in the WPA algorithm suite is the amount of data 
people communicate without protection. Protection of user data is an application issue, 
not a networking one, and thus it is something for users and programs to solve.
So far in this book, we have focused almost exclusively on confidentiality and integ-
rity attacks, both in conventional computing and in networks. Our toolkit of counter-

measures relies heavily on the trio of authentication, access control, and encryption, 

as well as special-purpose tools such as defensive programming, separation, and least 

privilege. Now we turn to a security vulnerability especially potent in networks: denial 

of service, or loss of availability. To counter such threats we find we need a radically 

different set of countermeasures.
6.4 DENIAL OF SERVICE
Denial of service is devastating to a commercial firm that depends on computing for 

customer interaction, as well as back-end functions like inventory management and 

scheduling. Governments continue to move service to the web, so failed access means 

the citizens cannot handle ordinary government interactions. Recent advances in elec-

tronic medical records have brought advantages, but as reliance on that mode of data 

management grows, treating patients will become dangerous without data access. And 

computerized control of devices from traffic lights to satellites means that a service fail-

ure can lead to serious complications in the physical world, as well. For these reasons, 

we explore causes and countermeasures for denial of service.
Example: Massive Estonian Web Failure 
We begin this section with an example of a large service attack. And although perpe-

trators of this attack are still unknown, it is fairly clear that this attack was politically 

motivated.
Officials in the Republic of Estonia decided in 2007 to move a monument called the 
“Bronze Soldier,” which commemorated Russian involvement in World War II. Taking 

the move as an affront to Russia, people blockaded the Estonian embassy in Moscow, 

and protests erupted in Estonia, which has a large ethnic Russian minority population.
Almost immediately after the demonstrations began, Estonian websites were bom-
barded with traffic, at rates of 100–200 megabits per second. Although more recently 

attacks have reached 1,000 times that volume, in 2007, 100 megabit per second traffic 

was unheard of.
