838 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
recent elections in the United States have involved several contests that were decided by 
well under one percent of the votes cast. When an election’s margin is slim, a recount is 

common and in some cases mandatory. Election officials need adequate data to verify 

and recount votes, but fully electronic systems may lack the means to satisfy skeptics. 

In Sidebar 13-3 we show how Estonia developed electronic voting.
In 2005, the U.S. Computer Science and Telecommunications Board (CSTB) of the 
National Academy of Science [NRC05]
 released its study of electronic voting. The 
report raised questions that must be addressed in any thorough debate about electronic 

voting. For example, the CSTB asked how an electronic voting process will assure 

individual privacy in voter registration and in individual votes. In addition, the study 

emphasized that the public must have confidence in the process; otherwise, the public 

will not trust the outcome.Rubin [RUB02], Schneier [SCH04], and Bennet [BEN04], among others, have con-
tinued to study electronic voting. And investigations, such as the one described in Side-

bar 13-4, suggest that we are not close to having e-voting machines we can trust
3. Even 
e-voting without specialized hardware can present significant problems. For example, 

Rubin notes that Internet voting, which has been used in several countries (for example, 

astronauts in orbit have been allowed to vote by email since 1997), has an obvious ben-

efit: easy access for those who cannot go to the polls. But it has a corresponding weak-

ness: it is not available to people who have no Internet access or who are uncomfortable 

with computing technology. 
3. To be fair, noncomputerized voting has its defects, too. Ballot boxes have mysteriously disappeared, 
people have been bribed not to vote, and false notices have been circulated advising of a change of 

election day or polling place. The politics of some big city elections were so corrupt that the phrase 

“vote early, vote often” was taken literally. Corruption and honest human errors affect accuracy in all 

elections—electronic or not.SIDEBAR 13-3 Internet-Enabled Voting in Estonia
Estonia has a relatively high proportion of Internet-enabled government 
interaction, so it is natural for them to experiment with electronic voting. 

Beginning in 2001 plans were laid for allowing electronic balloting as an 

option. In 2005 they held the world’s first Internet-enabled election, in 

which 1.9 percent of votes cast were done over the Internet. The figure has 

steadily risen to 21 percent in 2013.
A team of international observers monitored the 2013 election. The 
Estonian officials cooperated fully, making the entire process, including 

source code and test machinery, available to the inspectors. The team’s 

report [HAL14] details weaknesses from poor oversight of and faulty pro-

cedures in the voting system, potentially allowing introduction of malware 

that could disrupt an entire election or replace one vote with another. The 

positive interpretation of this thorough analysis is that it serves as a good 

example of both positive and negative practices from which other political 

entities can learn.
