 Section 11.2  Information and the Law 
717  you write to animate or otherwise affect the display of your web page. And, in theory, 
if your web page contains malicious code, your copyright covers that, too. As we dis-

cussed earlier, a copyrighted work does not have to be exclusively new; it can be a 

mixture of new work to which you claim copyright and old things to which you do not. 

You may purchase or use with permission a piece of web art, a widget (such as an applet 

that shows a spinning globe), or some music. Copyright protects your original works.
Domain Names and URLsDomain names, URLs, company names, product names, and commercial symbols are 
protected by a trademark, which gives exclusive rights of use to the registered owner 
of such identifying marks.11.2 INFORMATION AND THE LAW
Source code, object code, and even the “look and feel” of a computer screen are rec-

ognizable, if not tangible, objects. The law deals reasonably well, although somewhat 

belatedly, with these things. But computing is in transition to a new class of object, with 

new legal protection requirements. Electronic commerce, publishing, voting, banking—

these are the new challenges to the legal system. In this section we consider some of 

these new security requirements.
Information as an ObjectThe shopkeeper used to stock “things” in the store, such as buttons, automobiles, and 

pounds of sugar. The buyers were customers. When a thing was sold to a customer, the 

shopkeeper’s stock of that thing was reduced by one, and the customer paid for and left 

with a thing. Sometimes the customer could resell the thing to someone else, for more 
or less than the customer originally paid.Other kinds of shops provided services that could be identified as things, for exam-
ple, a haircut, root canal, or defense for a trial. Some services had a set price (for exam-

ple, a haircut), although one provider might charge more for that service than another. A 

“shopkeeper” (hair stylist, dentist, lawyer) essentially sold time. For instance, the price 

of a haircut generally related to the cost of the stylist’s time, and lawyers and accoun-

tants charged by the hour for services in which there was no obvious standard item. The 

value of a service in a free economy was somehow related to its desirability to the buyer 

and the seller. For example, the dentist was willing to sell a certain amount of time, 

reserving the rest of the day for other activities. Like a shopkeeper, a service provider 

sold some time or service that could not be sold again to someone else.But today we must consider a third category for sale: information. There is no ques-
tion that information is valuable. Students are tempted to pay others for answers during 

examinations, and businesses pay for credit reports, client lists, and marketing advice. 

But information does not fit the familiar commercial paradigms with which we have 
