834 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
charges for each consumer but could stop cold the spammer who sends out millions of 
messages a day.
A similar economic concept is that of an externality
. Here, two people or organiza-
tions make a decision or enact a transaction, and a third party benefits—even though the 

third party played no role. Howard Kunreuther and Geoffrey Heal [KUN03] are exam-

ining security externalities, particularly where security problems have optimal solutions 

(from a computing point of view) that are not socially optimal. They are investigating 

the case in which there is a threat of an event that can happen only once, the threat’s risk 

depends on actions taken by others, and any agent’s incentive to invest in reducing the 

threat depends on the actions of others. Copyright and digital rights management are frequent topics for regulatory discus-
sion. Marc Fetscherin and C. Vlietstra [FET05] examine the business models of online 

music providers, particularly in how the price is determined for a given piece of music. 

They show that the price is affected by buyer’s rights (to copy and move to portable 

players) as well as by geographic location and music label. Felix Oberholzer and Kole-

man Strumpf [OBE04] have examined records of downloads and music sales, showing 

that the downloads do no harm to the music industry. This result is controversial, and 

several conference papers have presented dissenting views. Hal Varian [VAR02] dis-

cusses the broader problem of the effect of strict controls on innovation. He suggests 

that as control increases, those who are uncomfortable with risk will stop innovating.
In general, cybersecurity economics researchers are investigating how to use market 
forces to encourage socially acceptable security behavior. So cybersecurity economics 

will continue to emerge as companion controls to the technology-based controls we 

continue to develop.
13.3 ELECTRONIC VOTING
Once again, we step back to examine a broad issue that cuts across several areas we 

encounter as we live our lives. Each of us is a citizen, and in most of our countries, we 

vote to express our views and choose people who represent us in our towns, states, and 

countries. Traditionally, voting has taken place by means of paper ballots: We mark our 

choices on a sheet of paper and then hand the paper to someone who will tally the votes.
But even on paper, security looms large. A good security engineer investigating what 
makes for good voting can point out the C-I-A requirements in the electoral process:
• Confidentiality
. We want to be able to cast a ballot without revealing our votes 
to others.• Integrity
. We want votes to represent our actual choices, and not be changed 
between the time we mark the ballot and the time our vote is counted. We also 

want every counted ballot to reflect one single vote of an authorized person. 

That is, we want to be able to ensure that our votes are authentic and that the 

reported totals accurately reflect the votes cast.
• Availability
. Usually, votes are cast during an approved pre-election period or 
on a designated election day, so we must be able to vote when voting is allowed. 

If we miss the chance to vote or if voting is suspended during the designated 

period, we lose the opportunity to cast a vote in the given election.
