 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
399  comes naturally to six-year-olds). The teacher becomes so overloaded with demands 
that the only solution is to dismiss all current demands and start afresh.An attacker can try for the same overloading effect by presenting commands more 
quickly than a server can handle them; servers often queue unmet commands during 

moments of overload for service when the peak subsides, but if the commands continue 

to come too quickly, the server eventually runs out of space to store the demand. Such 

an attack is called an overload 
or flood.The target of a flooding attack can be an application, such as a database manage-
ment system; an operating system or one of its components, for example, file or print 

server; or a network appliance like a router. Alternatively, the flooding attack can be 

directed against a resource, such as a memory allocation table or a web page. On the 

day Michael Jackson died, Google received so many queries about him that the Google 

engineers thought they were under attack and took evasive measures that, ironically, 

limited access to the Google news 

service. A denial-of-service flood-

ing attack can be termed volumet-
ric, meaning it simply seeks to 
saturate or exhaust the capacity of a 

critical telecommunications link.Blocked AccessAs another physical analogy, consider a traffic accident that stops traffic in both direc-
tions of a busy, two-lane road. As motorists begin to line up behind the accident, at 

some point one driver concludes the right approach is to slip into the oncoming traffic 

lane to get around all the stopped cars and, naturally, others immediately follow. They 

get as far as the accident and have to stop. What then happens is that two lanes of traffic 

build up at the point of the accident on both sides of the accident, meaning that police 

and other emergency vehicles cannot get past the two solid lines of cars in both direc-

tions to get to the accident. Even when the disabled cars are pushed off the road to clear 

the accident, all lanes are filled with cars that cannot move because there is no room 

either in front or behind. In computer security, the attacker may simply prevent a service from functioning. 
The attacker could exploit a software vulnerability in an application and cause the appli-

cation to crash. Or the attacker could interfere with the network routing mechanisms, 

preventing access requests from getting to the server. Yet another approach would be 

for the attacker to manipulate access control data, deleting access permissions for the 

resource, or to disable the access control mechanism so that nobody could be approved 

for access. In Sidebar 6-16, the attacker alleged that he had deleted the original copy of 

an important database and encrypted a backup copy, which he was holding for ransom.
Access Failure
Either maliciously or not, hardware and software fail from time to time; of course, it 
always seems that such nonmalicious failures occur only at critical times. Software 

stops working due to a flaw, or a hardware device wears out or inexplicably stops. The 
A flooding attack occurs from demand 

in excess of capacity, from malicious or 

natural causes.