 Section 6.5  Distributed Denial-of-Service 
421  attack that can and does severely affect major users. In the next section we study these 
distributed denial-of-service attacks.
6.5 DISTRIBUTED DENIAL-OF-SERVICE
The denial-of-service attacks we just described are powerful by themselves, and Side-

bar 6-19 shows us that many are 

launched. But an assailant can con-

struct a two-stage attack that mul-

tiplies the effect many times. This 

multiplicative effect gives power to 

distributed denial of service.
SIDEBAR 6-18  
State of Virginia Halted Because 
of IT Failure
On 25 August 2010, computer services for 26 of the 89 agencies of the 
State of Virginia failed, affecting 13 percent of the state’s file servers. State 

agencies could not access data needed to serve customers. Perhaps most 
noticeably affected was the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles, which 

could not issue driver licenses or identification cards. The State Depart-

ment of Taxation and State Board of Elections were also severely affected, 

being without access to databases for almost a week; other state agencies 
were affected for up to three days. During the outage, the Department of 

Taxation could not access taxpayers’ accounts, the state could not issue 

unemployment checks, and welfare benefits were paid only because of a 

major effort by employees working over the weekend.
The cause of the loss of service was ultimately found to be a failed hardware component, specifically an EMC storage area network (SAN) 

device. Ironically, that hardware is intended to 
improve
 reliability of data stor-
age by supporting redundancy and common backup and allowing data to 

be aggregated from a variety of different kinds of storage devices. Within the 

SAN two circuit boards failed, leading to the widespread loss of access; one 

board was found to be defective and, when it was replaced, the storage net-

work failed so catastrophically that the entire system had to be shut down for 

over two days. The manufacturer said such a massive failure was unprec-

edented and the technology has a reliability rate of 99.999 percent [NIX10].
When the hardware was working again, state officials and technicians 
from Northrop Grumman, the state’s contractor running the entire system, 

found that major databases had been corrupted and the only course of 

action was to rebuild the databases from backup copies on tape. Most 

recently entered data—representing 3 percent of the databases—was irre-

trievably lost [SOM10].Not every denial of service problem is the result of a malicious attack, 
but the consequences of denial of service can be equally severe from mali-

cious or nonmalicious causes.Distributed denial-of-service attacks change the balance between adversary 
and victim by marshalling many forces 

on the attack side.