 Section 5.2  Security in the Design of Operating Systems 
313  On the other hand, implementing a security kernel may degrade system performance 
because the kernel adds yet another layer of interface between user programs and oper-

ating system resources. Moreover, the presence of a kernel does not guarantee that it 

contains all security functions or that it has been implemented correctly. And in some 
cases a security kernel can be quite large.
How do we balance these positive and negative aspects of using a security ker-
nel? The design and usefulness of a security kernel depend somewhat on the overall 

approach to the operating system’s design. There are many design choices, each of 

which falls into one of two types: Either the security kernel is designed as an addition to 

the operating system or it is the basis of the entire operating system. Let us look more 
closely at each design choice.Reference Monitor
The most important part of a security kernel is the 
reference monitor
, the portion that controls accesses to objects [AND72, LAM71]. We introduced reference monitors in 

Chapter 2. The reference monitor separates subjects and objects, enforcing that a sub-

ject can access only those objects expressly allowed by security policy. A reference 

monitor is not necessarily a single piece of code; rather, it is the collection of access 

controls for devices, files, memory, interprocess communication, and other kinds of 

objects. As shown in Figure 5-15, a reference monitor acts like a brick wall around the 

operating system or trusted software to mediate accesses by subjects (S) to objects (O). 
As stated in Chapter 2, a reference monitor must be• tamperproof
, that is, impossible to weaken or disable
• unbypassable, that is, always invoked when access to any object is required
• analyzable, that is, small enough to be subjected to analysis and testing, the 
completeness of which can be ensuredThe reference monitor is not the only security mechanism of a trusted operating sys-tem. Other parts of the security suite include auditing and identification and authentica-

tion processing, as well as setting enforcement parameters, such as who are allowable 
Operating SystemorTrusted Software
Operating SystemorTrusted Software
ReferenceMonitorSSSOOOOFIGURE 5-15 Reference Monitor