 Section 10.2  Business Continuity Planning 
659  direct profit motive, but being able to meet the needs of their customers—the public, 
students, and constituents—partially determines how well they will fare in the future. 

All kinds of organizations must plan for ways to cope with emergency situations.
A business continuity plan
1 documents how a business will continue to function 
during or after a computer security incident. An ordinary security plan covers computer 

security during normal times and deals with protecting against a wide range of vulner-

abilities from the usual sources. A business continuity plan deals with situations having 

two characteristics:
• catastrophic situations,
 in which all or a major part of a computing capability is 
suddenly unavailable
• long duration,
 in which the 
outage is expected to last for 

so long that business will 

suffer
A business continuity plan would be helpful in many situations. Here are some 
examples that typify what you might find in reading your daily newspaper:
• A fire destroys a company’s entire network. 
• A seemingly permanent failure of a critical software component renders the 
computing system unusable.• The abrupt failure of a supplier of electricity, telecommunications, network 
access, or other critical service limits or stops activity.
• A flood prevents the essential network support staff from getting to the opera-
tions center.
As you can see, the impact in each example is likely to continue for a long time, and 
each disables a vital function.You may also have noticed how often “the computer” is blamed for an inability to 
provide a service or product. For instance, the clerk in a shop is unable to use the cash 

register because “the computer is down.” You may have a CD in your hand, plus exactly 

the cash to pay for it. But the clerk will not take your money and send you on your 

way. Often, computer service is restored shortly. But sometimes it is not. Once we were 

delayed for over an hour in an airport because of an electrical storm that caused a power 

failure and disabled the airlines’ computers. Although our tickets showed clearly our 

reservations on a particular flight, the airline agents refused to let anyone board because 

they could not assign seats. As the computer remained down, the agents were frantic
2 because the technology was delaying the flight and, more importantly, disrupting hun-

dreds of connections.1. The standard terminology is “business continuity plan,” even though such a plan is needed by and applies 
to a university’s “business” of educating students or a government’s “business” of serving the public.
2. The obvious, at least to us, idea of telling passengers to “sit in any seat” seemed to be against airline policy. 
And this incident was long before the 9/11 terrorist attack tightened airline security.
Business continuity planning guides response to a crisis that threatens a 

business’s existence.
