614 Chapter 9  
PrivacyIf those records can be reconnected to the identifying information, privacy suffers. If, 
for example, names have been removed from records but telephone numbers remain, a 

researcher can use a different database of telephone numbers to determine the patient, 

or at least the name assigned to the telephone. Removing enough information to prevent 

identification or re-identification is difficult and can also limit research possibilities.
As described in Sidebar 9-5, Ross Anderson was asked to study a major database 
being prepared for citizens of Iceland. The database would have joined several health-

care databases for use by researchers and healthcare professionals. Anderson demon-

strated that even though the records had been anonymized, it was still possible to relate 
SIDEBAR 9-5  
Iceland Weighs Anonymity Against Public 
BenefitIn 1998, Iceland authorized the building of a database of citizens’ medi-cal records, genealogy, and genetic information. Ostensibly, this database 

would provide data on genetic diseases to researchers—medical profes-

sionals and drug companies. Iceland is especially interesting for genetic 

disease research because the gene pool has remained stable for a long 

time; few outsiders have moved to Iceland, and few Icelanders have emi-

grated. For privacy, all identifying names or numbers would be replaced 

by a unique pseudonym. The Iceland health department asked computer 

security expert Ross Anderson to analyze the security aspects of this 

approach.
Anderson found several flaws with the proposed approach [AND98]:
• Inclusion in the genealogical database complicates the task of main-
taining individuals’ anonymity because of distinctive family features. 

Moreover, parts of the genealogical database are already public 

because information about individuals is published in their birth and 

death records. For example, it would be rather easy to identify some-

one in a family of three children born, respectively, in 1910, 1911, and 

1929.• Even a life’s history of medical events may identify an individual. Many 
people might know the identity of a person who broke her leg ski-

ing one winter and contracted a skin disease the following summer, 

if those two events happened to exactly one person in the database.• Even small sample set restrictions on queries would fail to protect 
against algebraic attacks.• To analyze the genetic data, which by its nature is necessarily of very 
fine detail, researchers would need to make complex and specific 

queries. This same powerful query capability could lead to arbitrary 

selection of combinations of results.
For these reasons (and others), Anderson recommended against con-
tinuing to develop the public database. In spite of these problems, the Ice-

land Parliament voted to proceed with its construction and public release 

[JON00].