318 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsTrusted systems have three characteristics:
• a defined policy
 that details what security qualities it enforces• appropriate 
measures 
and mechanisms
 by which it can enforce that security 
adequately• independent 
scrutiny or 
evaluation
 to ensure that the mechanisms have been 
selected and implemented properly so that the security policy is in fact enforced.
History of Trusted Systems
Trusted systems have had a long and fitful history in computer security. The need for 
secure systems became apparent early in the days of multiuser, shared computing, in 

the 1960s. Willis Ware [WAR70] chaired a committee expressing the need for stronger 

security enforcement in systems. During the 1970s, research and actual systems dem-

onstrated the capability of and need for such systems, culminating in the report from 
James Anderson’s committee [AND72] that called for development of a process for 

obtaining more trustworthy systems.
Starting with drafts in the late 1970s, the U.S. Department of Defense wrote the 
Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria
 (called the TCSEC or Orange Book, 
because of the color of its cover), a document that specified functionality, design princi-

ples, and an evaluation methodology for trusted computer systems. Over time, the same 

approach was extended to network components and database management systems. For 

reasons we explain shortly, this scheme did not reach its intended degree of acceptance. 

Nevertheless, the TCSEC laid the groundwork for a progression of advancements on 

that foundation. Also important is that this progression started in the United States, but 

rapidly expanded to involve Canada, Germany, England, the Netherlands, and France 
• trusted product (an evaluated and approved product), trusted soft-
ware (the software portion of a system that can be relied upon to 

enforce security policy) 
• trusted computing base (the set of all protection mechanisms within a 
computing system, including hardware, firmware, and software, that 

together enforce a unified security policy over a product or system) 
• trusted system (a system that employs sufficient hardware and soft-
ware integrity measures to allow its use for processing sensitive 

information)
These definitions are paraphrased from [NIS91]
. Common to these 
definitions are the concepts of
• enforcement of security policy
• sufficiency of measures and mechanisms

• objective evaluation
Thus, the adjective trusted has a precise meaning in computer 
security.
SIDEBAR 5-4 Continued