722 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsCriminal and Civil LawStatutes are laws that state explicitly that certain actions are illegal. A statute is the 
result of a legislative process by which a governing body declares that the new law will 

be in force after a designated time. For example, the parliament may discuss issues 

related to taxing Internet transactions and pass a law about when relevant taxes must 

be paid. Often, a violation of a statute will result in a criminal trial, in which the government 
argues for punishment because an illegal act has harmed the desired nature of society. 

For example, the government will prosecute a murder case because murder violates 

a law passed by the government. In the United States, punishments of some criminal 

transgressions can be severe, and the law requires that the judge or jury find the accused 

guilty beyond reasonable doubt. For this reason, the evidence must be strong and com-

pelling. The goal of a criminal case 

is to punish the criminal, usually 

by depriving him or her of rights in 

some way (such as putting the crim-

inal in prison or assessing a fine).
Civil law 
is a different type of law, not requiring such a high standard of proof of 
guilt. In a civil
 case, an individual, organization, company, or group claims it is has 
been harmed. The goal of a civil case is restitution: to make the victim “whole” again 

by repairing the harm. For example, suppose Fred kills John. Because Fred has broken 

a law against murder, the government will prosecute Fred in criminal court for having 

broken the law and upsetting the order of society. Abigail, the surviving wife, might 

be a witness at the criminal trial, but only if she can present evidence confirming Fred’s 

guilt. But she may also sue him in 

civil court for wrongful death, seek-

ing payment to support her surviv-

ing children.Tort Law
Special legal language describes the wrongs treated in a civil case. The language reflects 
whether a case is based on breaking a law or on violating precedents of behavior that 

have evolved over time. In other words, sometime judges may make determinations 

based on what is reasonable and what has come before, rather than on what is written 
in legislation. A 
tort is harm not occurring from violation of a statute or from breach of a contract but instead from being counter to the accumulated body of precedents. Thus, 

statute law is written by legislators and is interpreted by the courts; tort law is unwritten 

but evolves through court decisions that become precedents for cases that follow.
The basic test of a tort is what a reasonable person would do. 
Fraud is a common 
example of tort law in which, basically, one person lies to another, causing harm. Lying 

or taking unfair advantage are things society does not condone.
Computer information is perfectly suited to tort law. The court merely has to decide 
what is reasonable behavior, not whether a statute covers the activity. For example, 
Criminal law involves a wrongful action 

against society.
Civil law involves harm to an individual 
or a corporation.