 Section 12.2  Symmetric Encryption Algorithms 
793  again. There are sixteen rounds of mixing. The mashing round is pure substitution. Two 
mashing rounds are performed after mixing rounds 5 and 11.Invented in 1987, RC2 is old as cryptosystems go. No serious weaknesses have been 
discovered in the design, but the 40-bit key makes brute-force key searches trivial.
RC4RC4 is a stream cipher, widely used in wireless networks (WEP and WPA, described 
in Chapter 6), as well as in SSL (also explained in Chapter 6) and various products. It 

was especially popular before 2000 because, like RC2, it employs a variable length key 

and so could be configured to use a 40-bit key, short enough to pass export restrictions.
RC4 is essentially a keyed pseudorandom number generator (PRNG); it generates a 
stream of bits in no predictable order. For encryption, the stream of bits is XORed with 

the plaintext bits.
The algorithm is ingeniously simple. It uses a 256-element array A containing each 
of the 256 possible values of an 8-bit byte. Pointers 
i and 
j identify bytes from the 
array to be swapped. At each step, 
i is incremented by 1, 
j is replaced by 
j  A[
i], 
A[i] and A[
j] are swapped, and the byte A[A[
i]A[j]] is produced as output. (All addi-tions are carried out mod 256.) The algorithm is very efficient, especially for a software 

implementation.No serious cryptanalytic weaknesses have been found in the algorithm itself. How-
ever the random number sequence of an XOR stream cipher must never repeat. That 

is, the same key must never be used for two different plaintexts. To see why, consider 

plaintexts 
p1 and p2, encrypted with a common key 
k.c1  p1  kc2  p2  kThe attacker takes the two ciphertexts and computes

 c1  c2  (p1  k)  (p2  k) p1  p2  (k  k) p1  p2from which p1 and 
p2 may be recoverable with frequency analysis, probable plaintext, 
or other techniques.Many implementations of RC4 have exactly that weakness. To initialize array A, the 
algorithm starts with the values 1 to 256 in numerical order. Then it works through the 

256 bytes, swapping each byte with a byte whose location depends, in part, on a byte 

from the key: for each 
i,j : j  A[
i]  key[
i]and A[i] and A[
j] are swapped. So the up-to-256-byte key controls how the random 
number array is initialized. To protect against identical plaintext attacks, ciphers and especially XOR stream 
ciphers are used with an initialization vector, also called a 
nonce; this value works like 
