522 Chapter 7  
DatabasesThis query discloses that for record ADAMS, DRUGS=1. However, it is an obvious 
attack because it selects people for whom DRUGS=1, and the DBMS might reject the 

query because it selects records for a specific value of the sensitive attribute DRUGS.
A less obvious query is
List NAME where      (SEX=M ^ DRUGS=1) ^      (SEX=M ^ SEX=F) ^      (DORM=AYRES)On the surface, this query looks as if it should conceal drug usage by selecting other non-
drug-related records as well. However, this query still retrieves only one record, reveal-

ing a name that corresponds to the sensitive DRUG value. The DBMS needs to know 

that SEX has only two possible values, so that the second clause will select no records. 

Even if that were possible, the DBMS would also need to know that no records exist with 

DORM=AYRES, even though AYRES might in fact be an acceptable value for DORM.
Inference by Arithmetic
Another procedure, used by the U.S. Census Bureau and other organizations that gather 
sensitive data, is to release only statistics. The organizations suppress individual names, 

addresses, or other characteristics by which a single individual can be recognized. Only 

neutral statistics, such as count, sum, and mean, are released.The indirect attack seeks to infer a final result based on one or more intermediate 
statistical results. But this approach requires work outside the database itself. In particu-

lar, a statistical attack seeks to use some apparently anonymous statistical measure to 

infer individual data. In the following sections, we present several examples of indirect 

attacks on databases that report statistics.Sum An attack by sum tries to infer a value from a reported sum. For example, with the 
sample database in Table 7-7, it might seem safe to report student aid total by sex and 

dorm. Such a report is shown in Table 7-8. This seemingly innocent report reveals that 

no female living in Grey is receiving financial aid. Thus, we can infer that any female 

living in Grey (such as Liu) is certainly not receiving financial aid. This approach often 

allows us to determine a negative result.
Count The count can be combined with the sum to produce some even more revealing results. 
Often these two statistics are released for a database to allow users to determine average 

values. (Conversely, if count and mean are released, sum can be deduced.)
Table 7-9 shows the count of records for students by dorm and sex. This table is 
innocuous by itself. Combined with the sum table, however, this table demonstrates 

that the two males in Holmes and West are receiving financial aid in the amount of 

$5000 and $4000, respectively. We can obtain the names by selecting the subschema of 

NAME, DORM, which is not sensitive because it delivers only low-security data on the 

entire database.