 Preface
 xxvii  ORGANIZATION OF THIS BOOK
The chapters of this book progress in an orderly manner, from general security concerns 
to the particular needs of specialized applications, and then to overarching management 

and legal issues. Thus, this book progresses through six key areas of interest: 
1. Introduction: threats, vulnerabilities, and controls2. The security practitioner’s “toolbox”: identification and authentication, access 
control, and encryption3. Application areas of computer security practice: programs, user–Internet inter-
action, operating systems, networks, data and databases, and cloud computing
4. Cross-cutting disciplines: privacy, management, law and ethics
5. Details of cryptography6. Emerging application domains
The first chapter begins like many other expositions: by laying groundwork. In 
Chapter 1 we introduce terms and definitions, and give some examples to justify how 

these terms are used. In Chapter 2 we begin the real depth of the field by introducing 

three concepts that form the basis of many defenses in computer security: identifica-

tion and authentication, access control, and encryption. We describe different ways of 

implementing each of these, explore strengths and weaknesses, and tell of some recent 

advances in these technologies.
Then we advance through computing domains, from the individual user outward. 
In Chapter 3 we begin with individual programs, ones you might write and those you 

only use. Both kinds are subject to potential attacks, and we examine the nature of some 

of those attacks and how they could have been prevented. In Chapter 4 we move on 

to a type of program with which most users today are quite familiar: the browser, as a 

gateway to the Internet. The majority of attacks today are remote, carried from a distant 

attacker across a network, usually the Internet. Thus, it makes sense to study Internet-

borne malicious code. But this chapter’s focus is on the harm launched remotely, not on 

the network infrastructure by which it travels; we defer the network concepts to Chapter 

6. In Chapter 5 we consider operating systems, a strong line of defense between a user 
and attackers. We also consider ways to undermine the strength of the operating sys-

tem itself. Chapter 6 returns to networks, but this time we do look at architecture and 

technology, including denial-of-service attacks that can happen only in a network. Data, 

their collection and protection, form the topic of Chapter 7, in which we look at data-
base management systems and big data applications. Finally, in Chapter 8 we explore 

cloud computing, a relatively recent addition to the computing landscape, but one that 

brings its own vulnerabilities and protections.
In Chapters 9 through 11 we address what we have termed the intersecting disciplines: 
First, in Chapter 9 we explore privacy, a familiar topic that relates to most of the six 

domains from programs to clouds. Then Chapter 10 takes us to the management side of 

computer security: how management plans for and addresses computer security problems. 

Finally, Chapter 11 explores how laws and ethics help us control computer behavior.
