638 Chapter 9  
Privacyshipment; that is, the tag’s value designates a specific shirt. The unique ID in the shirt 
helps the merchant keep track of stock, knowing that this shirt is from a shipment that 

has been on the sales display for 90 days. The tag also lets the manufacturer determine 

precisely when and where it was produced, which could be important for quality control 

if you returned the shirt because of a defect.As you walk down the street, your shirt will respond to any receiver within range that 
broadcasts its signal. With low-power tags using today’s technology, you would have 

to pass quite close to the receiver for it to obtain your signal, a few centimeters at most. 

Some scientists think this reception will be extended in the future, and others think the 

technology exists today for high-power readers to pick up the signal a meter away. If the 

distance is a few centimeters, you would almost have to brush up against the receiver in 

order for it to track the tag in your shirt; at a meter, someone could have a reader at the 

edge of the sidewalk as you walk past.
Your shirt, shoes, pen, wallet, credit card, mobile phone, media player, and candy bar 
wrapper might each have an RFID tag. Pet owners are even having RFID tags placed 

under their pets’ skin, so that a lost animal can be reunited with its owner. When you carry 

multiple tags with you as you move from one location to another, you make tracking easy. 

Any one of these tags would allow surreptitious tracking; the others provide redundancy. 

Tracking scenarios once found only in science fiction are now close to reality.
These readings accumulate as you go about your business. If a city were fitted with 
readers on every street corner, it would be possible to assemble a complete profile of 

your meanderings; timestamps would show when you stopped for a while between two 

receivers. Thus, it is imaginable and probably feasible to develop a system that could 

track all your movements, determine your habits, and thereby predict when you might 

be most vulnerable to a crime.The other privacy concern is what these tags say about you: One tag from an 
employee ID might reveal for whom you work, another from a medicine bottle might 

disclose a medical condition, and still another from an expensive key fob might suggest 

your finances. Currently you can 

visually conceal objects like your 

employee ID in your pocket; with 

RFID technology you may have to 

be more careful to block invisible 

radio signals.RFID Tags for Individuals
Tagging a shirt is a matter of chance. If you buy the right kind of shirt you will have a 
tag that lets you be monitored. But if you buy an untagged shirt, or find and cut out the 

tag, or disable the tag, or decide not to wear a shirt, you cannot be tracked. 
Some people choose to be identifiable, regardless of what they wear. Some peo-
ple with an unusual medical condition have already had an RFID tag permanently 

implanted on their bodies. This way, even if a patient is brought unconscious to a hos-

pital, the doctors can scan for a tag, receive the person’s unique number, and look up 

the person’s medical record by that number. A similar approach is being used to permit 
RFID tags respond to any reader close 

enough to pick up the signal.