266 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
Having your ID is no help to an attacker as long as your password is extremely difficult 
to guess or derive. Alas, that is where users often go wrong.
Faced with many passwords to remember, users skimp by reusing the same password 
on multiple sites. Even that reuse would be of only minor consequence if web sites pro-

tected IDs and corresponding passwords. But, as Sidebar 4-9 demonstrates, websites’ 

ID and password tables are both valuable to attackers and frequently obtained. The 

attack described is just one (the largest) of many such incidents described over time. 

Combine some users’ propensity for using the same password on numerous web sites 

with websites’ exposure to password leaking attacks, and you have the potential for 

authentication disaster.
Even if it is the web site that is attacked, it is the users who suffer the loss. Thus, 
understanding threats, vulnerabilities, and countermeasures is ultimately the web site 
owners’ responsibility. However, knowing that some web sites fail to protect their data 

adequately, you should be especially careful with your sensitive data: Choose strong 

passwords and do not repeat them across web sites.
Foiling Data AttacksThe attacks in this section all depend on passing commands disguised as input. As noted 

in Chapter 3, a programmer cannot assume that input is well formed.SIDEBAR 4-9  
Massive Compromise of a Password 
Database The New York Times 
(5 Aug 2014) reported that a group of Russian crimi-
nals had stolen over 1.2 billion ID and password pairs, and 500 million email 

addresses, as well as other sensitive data. These data items came from 

420,000 web sites. To put those numbers in perspective, the U.S. Census 

Bureau (2013) estimated the total population of the world at slightly more 

than 7 billion people, which of course includes many who are not Internet 

users. Internet World Stats (http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm) 

estimated that in 2012 there were approximately 2.4 billion Internet users 

in the world.The attack results were reported by security consultant Alex Holden 
of Hold Security.
The attack group started work in 2011 but only began to exfiltrate 
authentication data in April 2014. Holden stated that the group consists of 

fewer than a dozen men in their 20s, operating from a base in Russia. The 

group first infects computers with reconnaissance software that examines 

web sites visited by the unsuspecting users of infected browsers. A vulner-

able web site is reported back to the group, which later tests the site for 

compromise potential and finally mounts an attack (using SQL injection, 

which we just described) to obtain the full credentials database.
