 Section 1.8  Exercises 
35  13. Describe an example (other than the ones mentioned in this chapter) of data whose confiden-
tiality has a short timeliness, say, a day or less. Describe an example of data whose confidential-

ity has a timeliness of more than a year.
14. Do you currently use any computer security control measures? If so, what? Against what 
attacks are you trying to protect?15. Describe an example in which absolute denial of service to a user (that is, the user gets no 
response from the computer) is a serious problem to that user. Describe another example 

where 10 percent denial of service to a user (that is, the user’s computation progresses, but 

at a rate 10 percent slower than normal) is a serious problem to that user. Could access by 

unauthorized people to a computing system result in a 10 percent denial of service to the 

legitimate users? How?
16. When you say that software is of high quality, what do you mean? How does security fit in 
your definition of quality? For example, can an application be insecure and still be “good”?
17. Developers often think of software quality in terms of faults and failures. Faults are problems 
(for example, loops that never terminate or misplaced commas in statements) that developers 

can see by looking at the code. Failures are problems, such as a system crash or the invoca-

tion of the wrong function, that are visible to the user. Thus, faults can exist in programs 

but never become failures, because the conditions under which a fault becomes a failure are 

never reached. How do software vulnerabilities fit into this scheme of faults and failures? Is 

every fault a vulnerability? Is every vulnerability a fault?
18. Consider a program to display on your website your city’s current time and temperature. 
Who might want to attack your program? What types of harm might they want to cause? 

What kinds of vulnerabilities might they exploit to cause harm?
19. Consider a program that allows consumers to order products from the web. Who might want 
to attack the program? What types of harm might they want to cause? What kinds of vulner-

abilities might they exploit to cause harm?
20. Consider a program to accept and tabulate votes in an election. Who might want to attack the 
program? What types of harm might they want to cause? What kinds of vulnerabilities might 

they exploit to cause harm?
21. Consider a program that allows a surgeon in one city to assist in an operation on a patient 
in another city via an Internet connection. Who might want to attack the program? What 

types of harm might they want to cause? What kinds of vulnerabilities might they exploit to 

cause harm?