 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
117  component. Our signer S can certainly perform the protocol to produce a digital sig-
nature, and anyone who has 
S’s public key can determine that the signature did come 
from S. But who is S? We have no reliable way to associate a particular human with that 
public key. Even if someone says “this public key belongs to 
S,” on what basis do we 
believe that assertion? Remember the man-in-the-middle attack earlier in this chapter 

when Amy and Bill wanted to establish a shared secret key? Next we explore how to 

create a trustworthy binding between a public key and an identity.
Trust
A central issue of digital commerce is trust: How do you know that a Microsoft web 

page really belongs to Microsoft, for example? This section is less about technology 

and more about the human aspects of trust, because that confidence underpins the whole 

concept of a digital signature.In real life you may trust a close friend in ways you would not trust a new acquain-
tance. Over time your trust in someone may grow with your experience but can plum-

met if the person betrays you. You try out a person, and, depending on the outcome, 

you increase or decrease your degree of trust. These experiences build a personal trust 

framework.
Web pages can be replaced and faked without warning. To some extent, you assume 
a page is authentic if nothing seems unusual, if the content on the site seems credible or 
at least plausible, and if you are not using the site for critical decisions. If the site is that 
of your bank, you may verify that the URL looks authentic. Some sites, especially those 

of financial institutions, have started letting each customer pick a security image, for 

example, a hot red sports car or an iconic landmark; users are warned to enter sensitive 

information only if they see the personal image they previously chose.
In a commercial setting, certain kinds of institutions connote trust. You may trust (the 
officials at) certain educational, religious, or social organizations. Big, well-established 

companies such as banks, insurance companies, hospitals, and major manufacturers 

have developed a measure of trust. Age of an institution also inspires trust. Indeed, trust 

is the basis for the notion of branding, in which you trust something’s quality because 

you know the brand. As you will see shortly, trust in such recognized entities is an 

important component in digital signatures. Establishing Trust Between People
As humans we establish trust all the time in our daily interactions with people. We 
identify people we know by recognizing their voices, faces, or handwriting. At other 

times, we use an affiliation to convey trust. For instance, if a stranger telephones us and 

we hear, “I represent the local government . . .” or “I am calling on behalf of this char-

ity . . .” or “I am calling from the school/hospital/police about your mother/father/son/
daughter/brother/sister . . . ,” we may decide to trust the caller even if we do not know 
him or her. Depending on the nature of the call, we may decide to believe the caller’s 

affiliation or to seek independent verification. For example, we may obtain the affili-

ation’s number from the telephone directory and call the party back. Or we may seek 

additional information from the caller, such as “What color jacket was she wearing?” or 
