 Section 7.3  Reliability and Integrity 
513  (you request a record and the database provides it) or indirect (you request some 
records and from those results infer or intuit other data). Controlling direct access 

employs the access control techniques we describe in Chapters 2 and 5. Indirect 

access, however, is more difficult to control, and we explore it in more depth later in 

this chapter.
Finally, availability is important because of the shared access motivation underly-
ing database development. However, availability conflicts with confidentiality. The last 

sections of the chapter address availability in an environment in which confidentiality 

is also important.7.3 RELIABILITY AND INTEGRITY
Databases amalgamate data from many sources, and users expect a DBMS to provide 

access to the data in a reliable way. When software engineers say that software has 
reli-
ability, they mean that the software runs for very long periods of time without failing. 
Users certainly expect a DBMS to be reliable, since the data usually are key to busi-

ness or organizational needs. Moreover, users entrust their data to a DBMS and rightly 

expect it to protect the data from loss or damage. Concerns for reliability and integrity 

are general security issues, but they are more apparent with databases.
A DBMS guards against loss or damage in several ways, which we study in this 
section. However, the controls we consider are not absolute: No control can prevent an 

authorized user from inadvertently entering an acceptable but incorrect value.
Database concerns about reliability and integrity can be viewed from three 
dimensions:• Database integrity: 
concern that the database as a whole is protected against 
damage, as from the failure of a disk drive or the corruption of the master data-

base index. These concerns are addressed by operating system integrity controls 

and recovery procedures.
• Element integrity: 
concern that the value of a specific data element is written 
or changed only by authorized users. Proper access controls protect a database 

from corruption by unauthorized users.• Element accuracy: 
concern that only correct values are written into the elements 
of a database. Checks on the values of elements can help prevent insertion of 

improper values. Also, constraint conditions can detect incorrect values.
Protection Features from the Operating System
In Chapter 5 we discuss the protection an operating system provides for its users. A 

responsible system administrator backs up the files of a database periodically along 

with other user files. During normal execution, the operating system’s standard access 

control facilities protect the files against outside access. Finally, the operating system 

performs certain integrity checks for all data as a part of normal read and write opera-

tions for I/O devices. These controls provide basic security for databases, but the data-

base manager must enhance them.