 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
173  distributed. The moniker refers to the number of days (zero) during which a known vul-
nerability has gone without being exploited. The exploit window is diminishing rapidly, 

as shown in Sidebar 3-6.
SIDEBAR 3-6 Rapidly Approaching Zero
Y2K or the year 2000 problem, when dire consequences were forecast for 
computer clocks with 2-digit year fields that would turn from 99 to 00, was 

an ideal problem: The threat was easy to define, time of impact was easily 

predicted, and plenty of advance warning was given. Perhaps as a conse-

quence, very few computer systems and people experienced significant 

harm early in the morning of 1 January 2000. Another countdown clock has 

computer security researchers much more concerned.
The time between general knowledge of a product vulnerability and 
appearance of code to exploit that vulnerability is shrinking. The general 

exploit timeline follows this sequence:• An attacker discovers a previously unknown vulnerability.
• The manufacturer becomes aware of the vulnerability.

• Someone develops code (called proof of concept) to demonstrate the 
vulnerability in a controlled setting.
• The manufacturer develops and distributes a patch or workaround 
that counters the vulnerability.
• Users implement the control.

• Someone extends the proof of concept, or the original vulnerability 
definition, to an actual attack.As long as users receive and implement the control before the actual 
attack, no harm occurs. An attack before availability of the control is called 

a zero-day exploit
. Time between proof of concept and actual attack has 
been shrinking. Code Red, one of the most virulent pieces of malicious 

code, in 2001 exploited vulnerabilities for which the patches had been 

distributed more than a month before the attack. But more recently, the 

time between vulnerability and exploit has steadily declined. On 18 August 
2005, Microsoft issued a security advisory to address a vulnerability of 

which the proof of concept code was posted to the French SIRT (Security 

Incident Response Team) web site frsirt.org. A Microsoft patch was distrib-

uted a week later. On 27 December 2005, a vulnerability was discovered 

in Windows metafile (.WMF) files. Within hours hundreds of sites began to 

exploit the vulnerability to distribute malicious code, and within six days a 
malicious code toolkit appeared, by which anyone could easily create an 

exploit. Microsoft released a patch in nine days.
Security firm Symantec in its Global Internet Security Threat Report 
[SYM14b] found 23 zero-day vulnerabilities in 2013, an increase from 14 

the previous year and 8 for 2011. Although these seem like small numbers 

the important observation is the upward trend and the rate of increase. Also, 
(continues)