236 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
As if intercepting details such as name, account number, and authentication data 
were not enough, SilentBanker also changed the effect of customer actions. So, for 

example, if a customer instructed the bank to transfer money to an account at bank A, 

SilentBanker converted that request to make the transfer go to its own account at bank 

B, which the customer’s bank duly accepted as if it had come from the customer. When 

the bank returned its confirmation, SilentBanker changed the details before displaying 

them on the screen. Thus, the customer found out about the switch only after the funds 

failed to show up at bank A as expected.
A variant of SilentBanker intercepted other sensitive user data, using a display like 
the details shown in Figure 4-3. Users see many data request boxes, and this one looks 

authentic. The request for token value might strike some users as odd, but many users 

would see the bank’s URL on the address bar and dutifully enter private data.
As you can see, man-in-the-browser attacks can be devastating because they repre-
sent a valid, authenticated user. The Trojan horse could slip neatly between the user and 

the bank’s web site, so all the bank’s content still looked authentic. SilentBanker had 

little impact on users, but only because it was discovered relatively quickly, and virus 

detectors were able to eradicate it promptly. Nevertheless, this piece of code demon-

strates how powerful such an attack can be.
Keystroke Logger
We introduce another attack approach that is similar to a man in the browser. A 
key-
stroke logger
 (or key logger
) is either hardware or software that records all keystrokes 
entered. The logger either retains these keystrokes for future use by the attacker or sends 

them to the attacker across a network connection.
As a hardware device, a keystroke logger is a small object that plugs into a  
USB port, resembling a plug-in wireless adapter or flash memory stick. Of course, to FIGURE 4.3 Additional Data Obtained by Man in the Browser
Welcome to 
UR Bank!Please fill in the fields below.
Forgot your password? Click here.Customer IDUser ID
Password
Token Value

Email AddressUR BANK