 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
169  A Trojan horse
 is malicious code that, in addition to its primary effect, has a sec-
ond, nonobvious, malicious effect. The name is derived from a reference to the Trojan 

war. Legends tell how the Greeks tricked the Trojans by leaving a great wooden horse 

outside the Trojans’ defensive wall. The Trojans, thinking the horse a gift, took it inside 

and gave it pride of place. But unknown to the naïve Trojans, the wooden horse was 

filled with the bravest of Greek soldiers. In the night, the Greek soldiers descended from 

the horse, opened the gates, and signaled their troops that the way in was now clear to 

capture Troy. In the same way, Trojan horse malware slips inside a program undetected 

and produces unwelcome effects later on.
As an example of a computer Trojan horse, consider a login script that solicits a user’s 
identification and password, passes the identification information on to the rest of the 

system for login processing, but also 

retains a copy of the information for 

later, malicious use. In this example, 

the user sees only the login occurring 

as expected, so there is no reason to 

suspect that any other, unwelcome 

action took place.To remember the differences among these three types of malware, understand that a 
Trojan horse is on the surface a useful program with extra, undocumented (malicious) 

features. It does not necessarily try to propagate. By contrast, a virus is a malicious pro-
gram that attempts to spread to other computers, as well as perhaps performing unpleas-
ant action on its current host. The virus does not necessarily spread by using a network’s 

properties; it can be spread instead by traveling on a document transferred by a portable 

device (that memory stick you just inserted in your laptop!) or triggered to spread to 

other, similar file types when a file is opened. However, a worm requires a network for 

its attempts to spread itself elsewhere.
Beyond this basic terminology, there is much similarity in types of malicious code. 
Many other types of malicious code are shown in Table 3-2. As you can see, types 

of malware differ widely in their operation, transmission, and objective. Any of these 

terms is used popularly to describe malware, and you will encounter imprecise and 

overlapping definitions. Indeed, people sometimes use virus as a convenient general 

term for malicious code. Again, let us remind you that nomenclature is not critical; 

impact and effect are. Battling over whether something is a virus or worm is beside the 

point; instead, we concentrate on understanding the mechanisms by which malware 

perpetrates its evil.
In this chapter we explore viruses in particular, because their ability to replicate and 
cause harm gives us insight into two aspects of malicious code. Throughout the rest of 

this chapter we may also use the general term malware
 for any type of malicious code. 
You should recognize that, although we are interested primarily in the malicious aspects 

of these code forms so that we can recognize and address them, not all activities listed 

here are always malicious. 
Every month the security firm Kaspersky reports the top 20 infections detected on 
users’ computers by its products. (See http://www.securelist.com/en/analysis.) In April 
Trojan horse: program with benign 

apparent effect but second, hidden, 

malicious effect
