 Section 12.1  Cryptology 
773  This background information has readied you to study widely used encryption 
schemes today. Using these schemes is fairly easy, even though the detailed construc-

tion of the algorithms can be quite complex. As you study the three algorithms, keep 

in mind the possibility that cryptanalysts are also working to defeat these encryptions.
Cryptographic PrimitivesCryptography involves two basic techniques: replacing and shuffling. These operations 

can be applied in complex patterns. With computers, the complexity of the patterns is lim-

ited only by the time one is willing to devote to the encryption and decryption processes.
As Halderman’s team explains, however, the DRAM data loss is not 
immediate. Data remain for a few seconds and the loss is gradual, not 

instantaneous. They found reports of a semiconductor device that held its 

data for a week when maintained in liquid nitrogen, approximately 
200°C; they ran their own test and found only 0.17 percent data loss after 60 min-

utes in liquid nitrogen without power outside the computer.
Most attackers are not walking around with a container of liquid nitro-
gen. Halderman’s team used a readily available alternative: electronics 

shops sell aerosol cans of “canned air,” a spray to blow dust and other 

impurities out of electronics. Despite the name, these cans contain com-

pressed gasses, a compressed fluorohydrocarbon refrigerant, that is 

approximately 
50°C in liquid form, and the liquid can leak out if the can is 
inverted. Halderman’s team used such products in their experiments, find-

ing that they could preserve memory contents for several minutes.
So how does a computer chip lead to cryptanalysis? Encryption and 
decryption both require the key. If an application performs cryptography for 

a user, it has to store the key somewhere, usually in memory to be available 

for feeding into the encryption or decryption routine. Especially helpful is 

that encryption programs often precompute part of their work, trading an 

amount of memory space (to store precomputed tables) for the time saved 

by reducing the work to do each encryption or decryption. The pattern of 

these precomputed tables helps the team locate such tables in memory, 

making them easier to find than, say, a bank account number. Because 

Halderman’s team can preserve the contents of a memory chip, they have 

enough time to copy its entire contents to another stable medium before it 

decays seriously. Once the data are on a nonvolatile medium, the analysts 

have the luxury of time to perform detailed forensic analysis on memory, 

looking for clues that show where keys are stored. 
Admittedly, this example shows a highly creative (some people might 
say bizarre or even pathological) approach to obtaining sensitive data. 

Nevertheless, it exemplifies two points we originally make in Chapter 1: 

First, the attacker can use any tools or techniques; there is no concept of 

“playing nicely” in cryptanalysis (or in security). Second, motivation mat-

ters; a highly motivated attacker has incentive to develop and use highly 

sophisticated attacks that may yield a rich payoff.
