 Section 11.2  Information and the Law 
723  taking information from someone without permission and selling it to someone else as your own is fraud. The owner of the information can sue you, even though there may be 

no statute saying that information theft is illegal. That owner has been harmed by being 

deprived of the revenue you received from selling the information.
Because tort law develops only as a series of court decisions that evolve constantly, 
prosecution of a tort case can be difficult. If you are involved in a case based on tort 

law, you and your lawyer are likely to try two approaches: First, you might argue that 

your case is a clear violation of the norms of society, that it is not what a fair, prudent 

person would do. This approach could establish a new tort. Second, you might argue 

that your case is similar to one or more precedents, perhaps drawing a parallel between 

a computer program and a work of 

art. The judge or jury would have to 

decide whether the comparison was 

apt. In both of these ways, law can 

evolve to cover new objects.
Contract LawA third form of protection for computer objects is contracts. A contract is an agreement 
between two parties. A contract must involve three things:
• an offer
• an acceptance

• a consideration
One party offers something: “I will write this computer program for you for this 
amount of money.” The second party can accept the offer, reject it, make a counter 

offer, or simply ignore it. In reaching agreement with a contract, only an acceptance is 

interesting; the rest is just the history of how agreement was reached. A contract must 

include consideration of money or other valuables. The basic idea is that two parties 

exchange things of value, such as time traded for money or technical knowledge for 

marketing skills. For example, “I’ll wash your car if you feed me dinner” or “Let’s 

exchange these two CDs” are offers that define the consideration. It helps for a contract 

to be in writing, but it does not need to be. A written contract can involve hundreds of 

pages of terms and conditions qualifying the offer and the consideration.
One final aspect of a contract is its freedom: The two parties must enter into the 
contract voluntarily. If I say “sign this contract or I’ll break your arm,” the contract is 

not valid, even if leaving your arm intact is a really desirable consideration to you. A 

contract signed under duress or with fraudulent action is not binding. A contract does 

not have to be fair, in the sense of 

equivalent consideration for both 

parties, as long as both parties freely 
accept the conditions.Tort law is the unwritten body 

of standards of proper behavior, 

documented in prior court decisions.Contract law involves agreed written 

conditions between two parties.