 Section 1.1  What Is Computer Security? 
3  A computer device (including hardware, added components, and accessories) is cer-
tainly an asset. Because most computer hardware is pretty useless without programs, 

the software is also an asset. Software includes the operating system, utilities and device 

handlers; applications such as word processing, media players or email handlers; and 

even programs that you may have written yourself. Much hardware and software is 
off-
the-shelf, 
meaning that it is commercially available (not custom-made for your purpose) 
and that you can easily get a replacement. The thing that makes your computer unique 

and important to you is its content: photos, tunes, papers, email messages, projects, cal-
endar information, ebooks (with your annotations), contact information, code you cre-
ated, and the like. Thus, data items on a computer are assets, too. Unlike most hardware 

and software, data can be hard—if not impossible—to recreate or replace. These assets 

are all shown in Figure 1-2.
These three things—hardware, software, and data—contain or express things like 
the design for your next new product, the photos from your recent vacation, the chap-

ters of your new book, or the genome sequence resulting from your recent research. 

All of these things represent intellectual endeavor or property, and they have value 

that differs from one person or organization to another. It is that value that makes 

them assets worthy of protection, and they are the elements we want to protect. Other 

assets—such as access to data, quality of service, processes, human users, and net-

work connectivity—deserve protection, too; they are affected or enabled by the hard-

ware, software, and data. So in most cases, protecting hardware, software, and data 

covers these other assets as well. 
In this book, unless we specifi-
cally distinguish between hardware, 

software, and data, we refer to all 

these assets as the computer system, FIGURE 1-2 Computer Objects of Value
Hardware:Data:
Software:•   Computer•   Devices (disk

     drives, memory,

    printer)

•   Network gear •   Operating system•   Utilities (antivirus)

•   Commercial
    applications (word

    processing, photo

    editing)

•  Individual applications
•   Documents•   Photos
•  Music, videos

•   Email
•   Class projectsComputer systems—hardware, software, 

and data—have value and deserve 
security protection.
