528 Chapter 7  
Databasesdata structures having 
properties
 or 
attributes
 that add meaning to the data. These 
properties, called metadata, are not displayed with the picture or document, but they 
are not concealed; in fact, numerous applications support selecting, searching, sorting, 

and editing based on metadata.File Tags 
One use of attributes is tags for pictures. You might organize your photo collection with 

tags telling who or what landmarks are in each photo. Thus, you could search for all 

photos including Zane Wellman or from your trip to Stockholm. However, this tagging 

can sometimes reveal more than intended. Suppose your photo with Zane was taken on 

a rather embarrassing night out and shows him rather unflatteringly. If the photo were 

posted without a narrative description, only people who knew Zane would see the image 

and know it was he. But when Zane applies for a job and the company does a web search 

to find out anything about him, the photo pops up because his name is in the metadata. 

And the picture can lead to questions; Zane may not even know you posted the photo, so 

he may be stunned to learn that a potential employer has seen him in that situation.
Part of this problem, as we describe in Chapter 9, is that the distinction between 
private and public is becoming less clear-cut. With photos printed on paper, you had a 

copy, perhaps Zane had a copy, and maybe a few close friends did, too. All of you kept 

your photos in an album, an old shoe box, or a drawer for memorabilia. Zane might 

even have looked at the photo and laughed, before he hastily threw it away. Unless his 

potential employer was awfully thorough, paper photos would never have become part 

of their search. Now, however, with Facebook, Picasa, Dropbox, and hundreds of shar-

ing sites, photos intended for a few close friends can turn up in anybody’s searches. 

Users don’t restrict access tightly enough, and limited access is not in the interests of 

the social networking sites (which derive significant revenue from advertising and thus 

are more interested in supporting their client advertisers than their human users).
A similar situation exists with documents. Each document has properties that include 
the name of the author, author’s organization, data created, date last saved, and so forth. 

If you are preparing a document for anonymous distribution, for example, a paper being 

submitted anonymously for review for presentation at a conference, you do not want the 

reviewers to be able to learn that you were the author.
Geotagging On 11 August 2010 the 
New York Times
 published a story about 
geotagging, the prac-tice of many cameras and smartphones of tagging each photo they take with the GPS 

coordinates where the photo was taken. According to the story, Adam Savage, host of 

the program Myth Busters
, took a photo of his car in front of his house and posted it to his Twitter account. However, because the photo contained location coordinates, Savage 

inadvertently disclosed the location of his house. With relatively little work, anyone can 

extract this metadata for offline analysis.
Friedland and Sommer [FRI10], who studied the problem of geotagging, note that many people are unaware that the phenomenon exists and, even among those who 

are aware of geotagging, some do not realize when it has occurred. According to the 

authors, between 1 percent and 5 percent of photos at sites such as Flickr, YouTube, 

and Craigslist contain header data that gives the location where the picture was taken. 
