 Section 2.1  Authentication 
61  SIDEBAR 2-9 DNA for Identification or Authentication
In December 1972, a nurse in San Francisco was sexually assaulted and 
brutally murdered in her apartment. The landlady, who confronted a man as 

he rushed out of the apartment, gave a physical description to the police. 

At the crime scene, police collected evidence, including DNA samples of 
the assumed murderer. After months of investigation, however, police were 

unable to focus in on a suspect and the case was eventually relegated to 

the pile of unsolved cases.Thirty years later, the San Francisco Police Department had a grant 
to use DNA to solve open cases and, upon reopening the 1972 case, they 

found one slide with a deteriorated DNA sample. For investigative pur-

poses, scientists isolate 13 traits, called markers, in a DNA sample. The 

odds of two different people matching on all 13 markers is 1 in 1 quadrillion 

(1*1015). However, as described in a 
Los Angeles Times story by Jason 
Felch and Maura Dolan [FEL08], the old sample in this case had deterio-

rated and only 51⁄2 of 13 markers were reliable. With only that many markers, 
the likelihood that two people would match drops to 1 in 1.1 million, and 

remember that for the purpose here, two people’s DNA matching means at 

least one sample is not the criminal’s.
Next, the police wanted to compare the sample with the California 
state database of DNA samples of convicted criminals. But to run such a 
comparison, administrators require at least 7 markers and police had only 

51⁄2. To search the database, police used values from two other markers 
that were too faint to be considered conclusive. With seven markers, police 

polled the database of 338,000 and came up with one match, a man sub-

sequently tried and convicted of this crime, a man whose defense attorneys 

strongly believe is innocent. He had no connection to the victim, his finger-

prints did not match any collected at the crime scene, and his previous 

conviction for a sex crime had a different pattern.
The issue is that police are using the DNA match as an identifier, not 
an authenticator. If police have other evidence against a particular suspect 

and the suspect’s DNA matches that found at the crime scene, the likeli-

hood of a correct identification increases. However, if police are looking 

only to find anyone whose DNA matches a sample, the likelihood of a false 
match rises dramatically. Remember that with a 1 in 1.1 million 
false match 
rate, if you assembled 1.1 million people, you would expect that one would 
falsely match your sample, or with 0.5 million people you would think the 

likelihood of a match to be approximately 1 in 2. The likelihood of a false 

match falls to 1 in 1.1 million people only if you examine just one person.Think of this analogy: If you buy one lottery ticket in a 1.1 million ticket 
lottery, your odds of winning are 1 in 1.1 million. If you buy two tickets, your 

odds increase to 2 in 1.1 million, and if you buy 338,000 tickets your odds 

become 338,000 in 1.1 million, or roughly 1 in 3. For this reason, when seek-

ing identification, not authentication, both the FBI’s DNA advisory board 

and a panel of the National Research Council recommend multiplying the 
(continues)