 Section 2.1  Authentication 
71  Suppose we want to control access to a computing system. In addition to a name and 
password, we can use other information available to authenticate users. Suppose Adams 

works in the accounting department during the shift between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., 

Monday through Friday. Any legitimate access attempt by Adams should be made dur-

ing those times, through a workstation in the accounting department offices. By limiting 

Adams to logging in under those conditions, the system protects against two problems:
• Someone from outside might try to impersonate Adams. This attempt would be 
thwarted by either the time of access or the port through which the access was 

attempted.• Adams might attempt to access the system from home or on a weekend, plan-
ning to use resources not allowed or to do something that would be too risky 

with other people around.Limiting users to certain workstations or certain times of access can cause complica-
tions (as when a user legitimately needs to work overtime, a person has to access the 

system while out of town on business, or a particular workstation fails). However, some 

companies use these authentication techniques because the added security they provide 

outweighs inconvenience. As security analysts, we need to train our minds to recognize 

qualities that distinguish normal, allowed activity.
As you have seen, security practitioners have a variety of authentication mechanisms 
ready to use. None is perfect; all have strengths and weaknesses, and even combinations 
SIDEBAR 2-13 When More Factors Mean Less Security
Dave Concannon’s blog at www.apeofsteel.com/tag/ulsterbank describes 
his frustration at using Ulsterbank’s online banking system. The logon pro-

cess involves several steps. First, the user supplies a customer identifi-

cation number (the first authentication factor). Next, a separate user ID is 
required (factor 2). Third, the PIN is used to supply a set of digits (factor 3), 

as shown in the figure below: The system requests three different digits 

chosen at random (in the figure, the third, second, and fourth digits are to 

be entered). Finally, the system requires a passphrase of at least ten char-

acters, some of which must be numbers (factor 4).In his blog, Concannon rails about the difficulties not only of log-
ging on but also of changing his password. With four factors to remember, 

Ulsterbank users will likely, in frustration, write down the factors and carry 

them in their wallets, thereby reducing the banking system’s security. 
