 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
413  the protocol depend on a device’s being at the “edge” of a subnetwork, that is, directly 
connected to two different subnetworks. Although an attacker can represent being on 

the edge of a local subnetwork, for example, a wireless network in a hotel or laboratory, 

it is harder to represent being on the edge of a larger subnetwork, for example, imper-

sonating an ISP in direct connection to the Internet. A successful attacker, however, can 

redirect, read, copy, modify, or delete all traffic of the network under attack.
Source Routing and Address Spoofing
Internet traffic usually travels by the best available route; that is, each router determines 
the best next path (called the 
next hop) to which to direct a data unit. However, a 
sender, using a process called 
source routing
, can specify some or all of the intermedi-ate points by which a data unit is transferred. With 
strict source routing
, the complete path from source to destination is specified; with 
loose source routing
, certain (some or all) required intermediate points are specified. 
One use of source routing is to test or troubleshoot routers by forcing traffic to follow 
a specific path that an engineer can then trace. A more vicious use of source routing is to 

force data to flow through a malicious router or network link. Obviously, adding source 

routing to a data stream allows the man in the middle to force traffic to flow through 

his router. Because of its potential for misuse, loose source routing is blocked by many 

Internet routers.Traffic Redirection
As we saw earlier, at the network layer, a router is a device that forwards traffic on its 

way through intermediate networks between a source host’s network and a destination’s 

network. So if an attacker can corrupt the routing, traffic can disappear.
Routers use complex algorithms to decide how to route traffic. No matter the algo-
rithm, they essentially seek the best path (where “best” is measured in some combina-

tion of distance, time, cost, quality, and the like). Routers are aware only of the routers 

with which they share a direct network connection, and they use gateway protocols to 

share information about their capabilities. Each router advises its neighbors about how 

well it can reach other network addresses. This characteristic allows an attacker to dis-

rupt the network.
To see how, keep in mind that in spite of its sophistication, a router is simply a com-
puter with two or more network interfaces. Suppose a router advertises to its neighbors 

that it has the best path to every other address in the whole network. Soon all routers 

will direct all traffic to that one router. The one router may become flooded, or it may 

simply drop much of its traffic. In either case, a lot of traffic never makes it to the 

intended destination.As we mentioned earlier, routers trust each other to provide accurate data. Occasion-
ally, due to nonmalicious corruption a router will send faulty data, but these sporadic 

failures have localized effect and heal themselves over time thanks to network reliabil-

ity. However, an intentionally misleading router (or a device maliciously impersonating 

a router) can persist because of implicit trust. As you know, a standard countermea-

sure to exclude impostors is identification and authentication. But for efficiency, router 
