 Section 10.5  Dealing with Disaster 
687  Even when the hardware can be replaced, we must be concerned about the stored 
data and programs. The system administrator may choose to label storage media in a 

way that makes it easy to identify the most important data. For example, green, yellow, 

and red labels may show which disks are the most sensitive, so that all red disks are 

moved from the data center during a storm. Similarly, large plastic bags and waterproof 

tape can be kept near important equipment and media; they are used to protect the hard-

ware and storage media in case of a burst pipe or other sudden flood.
The real issue is protecting data and preserving the ability to compute. The only way 
to ensure the safety of data is to store backup copies in one or more safe locations.Fire
Fire is more serious than water; often there is not as much time to react, and human 
lives are more likely to be in immediate danger. To ensure that system personnel can 

react quickly, every user and manager should have a plan for shutting down the system 

in an orderly manner. Such a process takes only a few minutes but can make recovery 

much easier. This plan should include individual responsibilities for all people: some to 

halt the system, others to protect crucial media, others to close doors on media cabinets. 
Provision should be made for secondary responsibilities, so that onsite staff can perform 

duties for those who are not in the office.
Water is traditionally used to put out fires, but it can destroy equipment and paper. In 
fact, sprinklers can be more destructive than the fires themselves. A fire sensor usually 

activates many sprinklers, dousing an entire room, even when the fire is merely some 

ignited paper in a wastebasket and of no threat to the computing system. Many comput-

ing centers use carbon dioxide extinguishers or an automatic system that sprays a gas 

such as Halon to smother a fire but leave no residue. Unfortunately, these gas systems 

work by displacing the oxygen in the room, choking the fire but leaving humans unable 

to breathe. Consequently, when these protection devices are activated, humans must 

leave, halting efforts to salvage portable media.
The best defense for situations like these is careful placement of the computing 
facility. A windowless location with fire-resistant access doors and nonflammable full-

height walls can prevent some fires from spreading from adjacent areas to the comput-

ing room. With a fire- and smoke-resistant facility, personnel merely shut down the 

system and leave, perhaps carrying out the most important media.
Fire prevention is quite effective, especially because most computer goods are not 
especially flammable. Advance planning, reinforced with simulation drills, can help 

make good use of the small amount of time available before evacuation is necessary.
Other Natural DisastersComputers are subject to wind storms, earthquakes, volcanoes, and similar events. 
Although not natural disasters, building collapse, explosion, and damage from falling 

objects can be considered in the same category. These kinds of catastrophes are difficult 

to predict or value.
