786 Chapter 12  
Details of CryptographyIn Figure 12-6 you can see the effect of chaining. In the previous figure Annie’s 
account number encrypted twice as w2z%pr. But in this figure Annie’s account num-

ber is first combined with the encryption of the date block using the exclusive OR (
) function, producing the result C4UI6H. That C4UI6H is then encrypted, producing the 

result bl3tfr. Comparing the top and bottom of the figure, you can see that the first field, 

the date, encrypts the same in both halves, but the next fields differ, so all subsequent 

blocks are influenced by this difference. The encrypted value of each block feeds into 

the plaintext of the next block, and so each encrypted block depends on the values of all 

preceding blocks. Thus, no attacker can reorder or substitute encrypted blocks without 

destroying this chain of encryption. If we had shown results for the last two lines from 

the original figure, you would see that the two Zelda blocks would be different, because 

each depends on different preceding data.
FIGURE 12-6 Chained Encryption1 AugAnnieBrian0001100.00
apqrwx  apqrwxC4UI6Hbl3tfr    bl3tfrRMX22Albl9idetc.1 AugCaroleDrew0002500.00
ciphertext
apqrwx  apqrwxABCDEF3fhosb    3fhosbOBX34Hh4e5oeciphertext
Initialization Vector
You may have detected one final difficulty with the chaining example. Although data 
blocks along the chain are distinct, the first block (the date) has no prior context on 

which to depend, and thus it would always encrypt the same. The solution to this dif-

ficulty is a slight extension to the chaining approach.
To start the encryption of a data stream, you first create one extra block containing 
any value. The exact value is insignificant as long as it changes for each encryption; a 

random number generator is useful. Then, as shown in Figure 12-7 you apply chained 

encryption, starting with the first block (the random number), and linking subsequent 

blocks together as in the previous example. In this way, the first real data block (actually 

the second block encrypted) is different from one time to the next because the random 

initialization vector is different.
These two chaining techniques are similarly applicable with most symmetric  
ciphers.