 Section 4.4  Email Attacks 
267  An input preprocessor could watch for and filter out specific inappropriate string 
forms, such as  and 
 in data expected to contain only letters and numbers. However, 
to support input from different keyboard types and in different languages, some brows-

ers encode special characters in a numeric format, making such input slightly more 

difficult to filter.
The second countermeasure that applies is access control on the part of backend 
servers that might receive and execute these data attacks. For example, a database of 

names and telephone numbers might support queries for a single person. To assist users 

who are unsure of the spelling of some names, the application might support a wildcard 
notation, such as AAR* to obtain names and numbers of all people whose name begins 

with AAR. If the number of matching names is under a predetermined threshold, for 

example 10, the system would return all matching names. But if the query produces too 

many matches, the system could return an error indication.
In general, however, blocking the malicious effect of a cross-site scripting attack is 
a challenge.4.4 EMAIL ATTACKS
So far we have studied attacks that involve the browser, either modifying the browser’s 

action or changing the web site the browser presents to the user. Another way to attack 

a user is through email.Fake EmailGiven the huge amount of email sent and received daily, it is not surprising that much of 

it is not legitimate. Some frauds are easy to spot, as our first example shows, but some 

illegitimate email can fool professionals, as in our second example.
A recent email message advised me that my Facebook account had been deacti-
vated, shown in Figure 4-15. The only problem is, I have no Facebook account. In the 

figure I have shown where some of the links and buttons actually lead, instead of the 

addresses shown; the underlying addresses certainly do not look like places Facebook 

would host code.
This forgery was relatively well done: the images were clear and the language 
was correct; sometimes forgeries of this sort have serious spelling and syntax errors, 

although the quality of unauthentic emails has improved significantly. Attackers using 

fake email know most people will spot the forgery. On the other hand, it costs next to 

nothing to send 100,000 messages, and even if the response rate is only 0.1%, that is 

still 100 potential victims.Fake Email Messages as SpamSimilarly, an attacker can attempt to fool people with fake email messages. Probably 

everyone is familiar with 
spam, fictitious or misleading email, offers to buy designer 
watches, anatomical enhancers, or hot stocks, as well as get-rich schemes involving 

money in overseas bank accounts. Similar false messages try to get people to click to 
