 Section 4.3  Obtaining User or Website Data 
265  Microsoft Index Server. For example, passing the following URL causes the server to 
return the requested file, autoexec.nt, enabling an attacker to modify or delete it.
http://yoursite.com/webhits.htw?CiWebHits &File=../../../../../winnt/system32/autoexec.ntServer-Side Include
A potentially more serious problem is called a server-side include
. The problem takes 
advantage of the fact that web pages can be organized to invoke a particular function 

automatically. For example, many pages use web commands to send an email message 

in the “contact us” part of the displayed page. The commands are placed in a field that 

is interpreted in HTML.One of the server-side include commands is exec, to execute an arbitrary file on the 
server. For instance, the server-side include command
<!--#exec cmd="/usr/bin/telnet &"-->opens a Telnet session from the server running in the name of (that is, with the privi-

leges of) the server. An attacker may find it interesting to execute commands such as 

chmod
 (change access rights to an object), sh (establish a command shell), or cat (copy 
to a file).
Website Data: A User’s Problem, Too
You might wonder why we raise a website owner’s data in this chapter. After all, 

shouldn’t the site’s owner be responsible for protecting that data? The answer is yes, 

but with a qualification.
First, you should recognize that this book is about protecting security in all aspects of computing, including networks, programs, databases, the cloud, devices, and operat-

ing systems. True, no single reader of this book is likely to need to implement security 

in all those places, and some readers may never be in a position to actually implement 

security anywhere, although some readers may go on to design, develop, or maintain 

such things. More importantly, however, everyone who reads this book will use those 

components. All readers need to understand both what can go wrong and to what degree 

website owners and other engineers and administrators can protect against such harm. 

Thus, everyone needs to know range of potential threats, including those against distant 

web sites.But more importantly, some website data affect users significantly. Consider one 
of the most common data items that web sites maintain: user IDs and passwords. As 

we describe in Chapter 2, people have difficulty remembering many different IDs and 

passwords. Making it easier for users, many web sites use an email address as a user’s 

identification, which means user will have the same ID at many web sites. This repeti-

tion is not necessarily a problem, as we explain, because IDs are often public; if not an 

email address, an ID may be some obvious variation of the user’s name. What protects 

the user is the pair of the public ID and private authentication, typically a password. 
