724 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsInformation is often exchanged under contract. Contracts are ideal for protecting the 
transfer of information because they can specify any conditions. “You have the right 

to use but not modify this information,” “you have the right to use but not resell this 

information,” or “you have the right to view this information yourself but not allow oth-

ers to view it” are three potential contract conditions that could protect the commercial 

interests of an owner of information.
Computer contracts typically involve the development and use of software and com-
puterized data. As we note shortly, there are rules about who has the right to contract 

for software—employers or employees—and what are reasonable expectations of soft-

ware’s quality.
If the terms of the contract are fulfilled and the exchange of consideration occurs, 
everyone is happy. Usually. Difficulties arise when one side thinks the terms have been 

fulfilled and the other side disagrees.
As with tort law, the most common legal remedy in contract law is money. You 
agreed to sell me a solid gold necklace and I find it is made of brass. I sue you. Assum-

ing the court agreed with me, it might compel you to deliver a gold necklace to me, 

but more frequently the court will decide I am entitled to a certain sum of money. In 

the necklace case, I might argue first to get back the money I originally paid you, and 

then argue for incidental damages from, for example, payment to the doctor I had to 

see when your brass necklace turned my skin green, or the embarrassment I felt when 

a friend pointed to my necklace and shouted “Look at the cheap brass necklace!” I 

might also argue for punitive damages to punish you and keep you from doing such a 

disreputable thing again. The court will decide which of my claims are valid and what a 

reasonable amount of compensation is.Summary of Protection for Computer Artifacts
This section has presented the highlights of law as it applies to computer hardware, 

software, and data. Clearly these few pages only skim the surface; the law has countless 

subtleties. Still, by now you should have a general idea of the types of protection avail-

able for what things and how to use them. The differences between criminal and civil 

law are summarized in Table 11-2.
TABLE 11-2 
Criminal Versus Civil Law
Criminal LawCivil Law
Defined by
• Statutes• Contracts
• Common law
Cases brought by
• Government• Government
• Individuals and companies
Wronged party
• Society• Individuals and companies
Remedy• Jail, fine• Damages, typically monetary
