40 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
(public knowledge, especially because she had gotten public attention for not using the official governor’s mansion), and where she met her husband 

(part of her unofficial biography circulating during the campaign: she and 

her husband met in high school). With those three answers, Kernell was 

able to change her password (to “popcorn,” something appealing to most 

college students). From that point on, not only was Kernell effectively Palin, 

the real Palin could not access her own email account because did she not 

know the new password.
Authentication mechanisms use any of three qualities to confirm a user’s identity:
• Something the user 
knows. Passwords, PIN numbers, passphrases, a secret 
handshake, and mother’s maiden name are examples of what a user may know.
• Something the user 
is. These authenticators, called biometrics, are based on a 
physical characteristic of the user, such as a fingerprint, the pattern of a person’s 

voice, or a face (picture). These authentication methods are old (we recognize 

friends in person by their faces or on a telephone by their voices) but are just 

starting to be used in computer authentications.• Something the user 
has. Identity badges, physical keys, a driver’s license, 
or a uniform are common examples of things people have that make them 

recognizable.Two or more forms can be com-
bined; for example, a bank card and 

a PIN combine something the user 

has (the card) with something the 

user knows (the PIN). 
Although passwords were the first form of computer authentication and remain pop-
ular, these other forms are becoming easier to use, less expensive, and more common. In 

the following sections we examine each of these forms of authentication.
Authentication Based on Phrases and Facts: Something You Know
Password protection seems to offer a relatively secure system for confirming identity-

related information, but human practice sometimes degrades its quality. Let us explore 

vulnerabilities in authentication, focusing on the most common authentication param-

eter, the password. In this section we consider the nature of passwords, criteria for 

selecting them, and ways of using them for authentication. As you read the follow-

ing discussion of password vulnerabilities, think about how well these identity attacks 

would work against security questions and other authentication schemes with which 

you may be familiar. And remember how much information about us is known—some-

times because we reveal it ourselves—as described in Sidebar 2-2.
SIDEBAR 2-1 ContinuedAuthentication is based on something you know, are, or have.
