xixIn the 1950s and 1960s, the prominent conference gathering places for practitioners and users of computer technology were the twice yearly Joint Computer Confer-

ences (JCCs)—initially called the Eastern and Western JCCs, but later renamed the 
Spring and Fall JCCs and even later, the annual National (AFIPS) Computer Confer-

ence. From this milieu, the topic of computer security—later to be called information 
system security and currently also referred to as “protection of the national information 
infrastructure”—moved from the world of classified defense interests into public view.
A few people—Robert L. Patrick, John P. Haverty, and myself among others—all 
then at The RAND Corporation (as its name was then known) had been talking about 

the growing dependence of the country and its institutions on computer technology. 

It concerned us that the installed systems might not be able to protect themselves and 

their data against intrusive and destructive attacks. We decided that it was time to bring 

the security aspect of computer systems to the attention of the technology and user 

communities.Foreword
From the authors: 
Willis Ware kindly wrote the foreword that we published in both the 
third and fourth editions of Security in Computing. 
In his foreword he covers some of 
the early days of computer security, describing concerns that are as valid today as they 

were in those earlier days.Willis chose to sublimate his name and efforts to the greater good of the projects he 
worked on. In fact, his thoughtful analysis and persuasive leadership contributed much 

to the final outcome of these activities. Few people recognize Willis’s name today; 

more people are familiar with the European Union Data Protection Directive that is a 

direct descendant of the report [WAR73a] from his committee for the U.S. Department 

of Human Services. Willis would have wanted it that way: the emphasis on the ideas 

and not on his name.Unfortunately, Willis died in November 2013 at age 93. We think the lessons he 
wrote about in his Foreword are still important to our readers. Thus, with both respect 

and gratitude, we republish his words here.
