342 Chapter 6  
NetworksThis chapter covers the two sides of network security: threats and countermeasures. 
Thus, we have divided the chapter into two parts to help you to find and digest topics 

and to highlight the distinction between these areas. Of course, the two halves reinforce 

each other, and both are necessary for a true understanding of security in networks.
In this chapter we start with a brief review of network terms and concepts. After that 
background we open the first part of the chapter: threats. As you see, the threats against 

networks derive from the four basic threat types we introduced in Chapter 1: intercep-

tion, modification, fabrication or insertion, and interruption. We examine these threats 

in the context of wireless networking, a technology that has become popular through 

WiFi hotspots at coffee shops, university campuses, airports, and corporate environ-

ments; many of these access points are free. But when you connect to a free access 

point, what security do you have? (A similar question arises with cloud computing, as 

we examine in Chapter 8 on that topic.) Next we discuss denial-of-service attacks, in 

which legitimate users’ network use is severely constrained or even cut off; this kind of 

attack is unique to networks. 
The second part of the chapter presents three important ways to counter threats to 
networking. We revisit our workhorse, cryptography, showing how it can protect con-

fidentiality and integrity in networked communications. Then, we introduce two pieces 

of technology that can help protect users against harm from networks: firewalls and 

intrusion detection and protection systems. We conclude the chapter with techniques 

and technologies for managing network security.
6.1 NETWORK CONCEPTS
A network is a little more complicated than a local computing installation. To trivial-

ize, we can think of a local environment as a set of components—computers, printers, 

storage devices, and so forth—and wires. A wire is point to point, with essentially no 

leakage between end points, although wiretapping does allow anyone with access to the 

wire to intercept, modify, or even block the transmission. In a local environment, the 

physical wires are frequently secured physically or perhaps visually so wiretapping is 
not a major issue. With remote communication, the same notion of wires applies, but 

the wires are outside the control and protection of the user, so tampering with the trans-

mission is a serious threat. The nature of that threat depends in part on the medium of 

these “wires,” which can actually be metal wire, glass fibers, or electromagnetic signals 

such as radio communications. In a moment we look at different kinds of communica-

tions media.Returning our attention to the local environment with a wire for each pair of devices, 
to send data from one device to another the sender simply uses the one wire to the des-

tination. With a remote network, ordinarily the sender does not have one wire for each 

possible recipient, because the number of wires would become unmanageable. Instead, 

as you probably know, the sender precedes data with what is essentially a mailing label, 

a tag showing to where (and often from where) to transmit data. At various points along 

the transmission path devices inspect the label 
to determine if that device is the intended 
recipient and, if not, how to forward the data to get nearer to the destination. This pro-

cessing of a label is called routing. Routing is implemented by computers and, as you 