594 Chapter 9  
PrivacyControl and Ownership of Data
In many instances, you are asked to provide data (with proper notice) and you consent 
to do so, explicitly or implicitly. But what happens when the data are transferred to 

the requesting person or system? Having collected data with your permission, others 

may keep the data you give them; you have ceded control (and sometimes ownership, 

depending on the law in your region) of that copy of the data to them. For example, 

when you order merchandise online, you know you have just released your name, 

address, payment data, and a description of the items you purchased. Similarly, when 

you use a customer loyalty card at a store or online, you know the merchant can associ-

ate your identity with the things you browse or buy. Having captured your data, a mer-

chant can then hold the data indefinitely, as well as redistribute the data to other people 

or systems. Your browsing habits, purchase practices, and preferences for hotel brand, 

type of hotel room, airline or travel 

agent could be sold to other hotels. 

You have little control over dissemi-

nation (or redissemination) of your 
data. And once the data are gone, 

you cannot get them back.We do not always appreciate the ramifications of this lost control. Suppose in a 
moment of anger you dash off a strong note to someone. Although 100 years ago you 

would have written the note on paper and 50 years ago you could have voiced the com-

ment by telephone, now you post the message to a social media page. If you have a 

change of heart and you want to retract your angry comment, consider how you would 

deal with these three forms of the communication. For the written note, you write a let-

ter of apology, your recipient tears up your note, and no trace remains. (You might even 

be able to convince the postal carrier to return your letter before it is delivered, so no 

apology is necessary and no harm is done.) In the second case, you telephone to apolo-
gize and all that remains is a memory (assuming the original call was not recorded).
As for the electronic communication, you can delete your posting. However, in the 
time between creation and deletion, several other people might have seen your original 

posting (or a cached version) and copied it to blogs or other websites you do not control. 

Search engines might have found the original, a cached version, or copies. And other 

people might have picked up your words and circulated them in email. Thus, with paper 

letters, we can usually obliterate something we want to retract, and with phone calls, we 

can apologize and make amends. But once something electronic is out of your control 

on the web, it may never be deleted; indeed, it can proliferate and quickly become a 

serious problem. (Think, for example, of YouTube videos politicians wish had never 

been posted, especially after the videos went viral.)A similar situation concerns something written about you. Someone else has posted something on the web that is personal about you, and you want it removed. Even if the 

poster agrees, you may not be able to remove all its traces. This desire to remove old 

information that may be embarrassing is the focus of the European Union’s efforts to 

enforce a “right to be forgotten.”
In addition, some people are finding they reveal more than they should on sites 
like Facebook and Instagram. Prospective employees are being turned down for jobs 
Disseminated data are almost impossible 

to get back.