688 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsBut we know these catastrophes will occur. Security managers cope with them in 
several ways:
• developing contingency plans so that people know how to react in emergencies 
and business can continue
• insuring physical assets—computers, buildings, devices, supplies—against harm

• preserving sensitive data by maintaining copies in physically separated locations
Power LossComputers need their food—electricity—and they require a constant, pure supply of it. 
With a direct power loss, all computation ceases immediately. Because of possible dam-

age to media by sudden loss of power, many disk drives monitor the power level and 

quickly retract the recording head if power fails. For certain time-critical applications, 

loss of service from the system is intolerable; in these cases, alternative complete power 

supplies must be instantly available.
Uninterruptible Power SupplyOne protection against power loss is an uninterruptible power supply. This device stores 
energy during normal operation so that it can return the backup energy if power fails. 

One form of uninterruptible power supply uses batteries that are continually charged 

when the power is on but which then provide power when electricity fails. However, 

size, heat, flammability, and low output can be problems with batteries.
Some uninterruptible power supplies use massive wheels that are kept in continuous 
motion when electricity is available. When the power fails, the inertia in the wheels 

operates generators to produce more power. Size and limited duration of energy out-

put are problems with this variety of power supply. Both forms of power supplies are 

intended to provide power for a limited time, just long enough to allow the current state 

of the computation to be saved so that no computation is lost.
Surge Suppressor
Another problem with power is its “cleanness.” Although most people are unaware of it, 
a variation of 10 percent from the stated voltage of a line is considered acceptable, and 

some power lines vary even more. A particular power line may consistently be up to 10 

percent high or low.
In many places, lights dim momentarily when a large appliance, such as an air con-
ditioner, begins operation. When a large motor starts, it draws an exceptionally large 

amount of current, which reduces the flow to other devices on the line. When a motor 

stops, the sudden termination of draw can send a temporary surge along the line. Simi-

larly, lightning strikes may send a momentary large pulse. Thus, instead of being con-

stant, the power delivered along any electric line shows many brief fluctuations, called 

drops, spikes, and surges. A drop is a momentary reduction in voltage, and a spike or 

surge is a rise. For computing equipment, a drop is less serious than a surge. Most elec-

trical equipment is tolerant of rather large fluctuations of current.
