748 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsExamining a Situation for Ethical IssuesHow, then, can we approach issues of ethical choice in computer security? Here are 
several steps to making and justifying an ethical choice.
1. Understand the situation. 
Learn the facts of the situation. Ask questions of inter-
pretation or clarification. Attempt to find out whether any relevant forces have 

not been considered.2. Know several theories of ethical reasoning. 
To make an ethical choice, know 
how to justify it.
3. List the ethical principles involved. 
What different philosophies could be applied 
in this case? Do any of these include others?
4. Determine which principles outweigh others. 
This is a subjective evaluation. It 
often involves extending a principle to a logical conclusion or determining cases 

in which one principle clearly supersedes another.
5. Make
 and defend an ethical choice.The most important steps are the first and third. Too often people judge a situation 
on incomplete information, a practice that leads to judgments based on prejudice, sus-

picion, or misinformation. Consideration of all the different ethical issues raised forms 

the basis for evaluating the competing interests of step four.
Examples of Ethical PrinciplesThere are two schools of ethical reasoning: one based on the good that results from 
actions and one based on certain prima facie duties of people.
Consequence-Based PrinciplesThe teleological theory of ethics focuses on the consequences of an action. The action 
to be chosen is the one that results in the greatest future good and the least harm. For 

example, if a fellow student asks you to write a program he was assigned for a class, 

you might consider the good (he will owe you a favor) against the bad (you might get 

caught, causing embarrassment and possible disciplinary action, plus your friend will 
not learn the techniques to be gained from writing the program, leaving him deficient). 

The negative consequences clearly outweigh the positive, so you would refuse. 
Teleol-
ogy 
is the general name applied to many theories of behavior, all of which focus on the 
goal, outcome, or consequence of the action.There are two important forms of teleology. 
Egoism is the form that says a moral 
judgment is based on the positive benefits to the person taking the action. An egoist 

weighs the outcomes of all possible acts and chooses the one that produces the most 
personal good for him or her with the least negative consequence. The effects on other 

people are not relevant. For example, an egoist trying to justify the ethics of writing 

shoddy computer code when pressed for time might argue as follows. “If I complete the 

project quickly, I will satisfy my manager, which will bring me a raise and other good 

things. The customer is unlikely to know enough about the program to complain, so I 

am not likely to be blamed. My company’s reputation may be tarnished, but that will not 

be tracked directly to me. Thus, I can justify writing shoddy code.”
