754 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsThe IncidentCharlie and Carol are students at a university in a computer science program. Each 
writes a program for a class assignment. Charlie’s program happens to uncover a flaw 

in a compiler that ultimately causes the entire computing system to fail; all users lose 

the results of their current computation. Charlie’s program uses acceptable features of 

the language; the compiler is at fault. Charlie did not suspect his program would cause 

a system failure. He reports the program to the computing center and tries to find ways 

to achieve his intended result without exercising the system flaw.
The system continues to fail periodically, for a total of ten times (beyond the first 
failure). When the system fails, sometimes Charlie is running a program, but sometimes 

Charlie is not. The director contacts Charlie, who shows all his program versions to the 

computing center staff. The staff concludes that Charlie may have been inadvertently 

responsible for some, but not all, of the system failures, but that his latest approach to 

solving the assigned problem is unlikely to lead to additional system failures.
On further analysis, the computing center director notes that Carol has had pro-
grams running each of the first eight (of ten) times the system failed. The director 

uses administrative privilege to inspect Carol’s files and finds a file that exploits the 

same vulnerability as did Charlie’s program. The director immediately suspends Car-

ol’s account, denying Carol access to the computing system. Because of this, Carol 

is unable to complete her assignment on time, she receives a D in the course, and she 

drops out of school.AnalysisIn this situation the choices are intentionally not obvious. The situation is presented as a 
completed scenario, but in studying it you are being asked to suggest alternative actions 

the players could have taken. 
In this way, you build a repertoire of actions that you can 
consider in similar situations that might arise.• What additional information is needed?
• Who has rights in this case? What rights are those? Who has a responsibility to 
protect those rights? (This step in ethical study is used to clarify who should be 
considered as the reference group for a deontological analysis.)• Has Charlie acted responsibly? By what evidence do you conclude so? Has 
Carol? How? Has the computing center director acted responsibly? How? (In 

this step you look for past judgments that should be confirmed or wrongs that 

should be redressed.)• What are some alternative actions Charlie or Carol or the director could have 
taken that would have been more responsible?
Situation IV: Ownership of Programs
In this problem we consider who owns programs: the programmer, the employer, 

the manager, or all. From a legal standpoint, most rights belong to the employer, as 

presented earlier in this chapter. However, this exercise expands on that position by 
