562 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computingdesirable feature. For creating a common space that teammates can use to share 
files for a project, the ability to share access with a specific list of users is a 

necessity.
• Are the data subject to export controls or other regulations?
 Cloud offerings can 
make compliance with regulations like export control difficult. Export controls 

are regulations that restrict the flow of certain sensitive data outside of its native 

country. Many cloud providers maintain user data in multiple countries, and still 

more employ citizens of various countries in positions that enable them to view 

user data. Whatever regulations you need to comply with, you may find it dif-

ficult to identify cloud providers who meet your needs, and even more difficult 

to audit them to ensure they are doing as they claim.
When you use a public cloud service, your data are stored on the same set of storage 
devices as that of countless other customers. Those other customers pose a threat, and 

you need to ensure that adequate access controls are in place to protect your data from 
that threat. While almost any cloud provider will use logical access controls to prevent 

customers from accessing one another’s data, that one layer of security is generally not 

enough. If that access control fails or 

an attacker breaches it, your data will 

be left unprotected. Sidebar 8-3 is an 

excellent example.
The minimum requirement for protecting data confidentiality in a public cloud sce-
nario is to use an industry-standard symmetric encryption algorithm such as AES-256, 

with an individual encryption key for each user. One practical problem for a provider to 

consider when encrypting large quantities of data using a single key is this: Re-encrypting 
 gigabytes of data with a new key is a time- and resource-intensive process. As a result, 

the cloud provider should strive to never need to rekey any user’s data. Instead, cloud 

providers might consider the method used for encrypting local hard drives: Generate 

a strong, random “master” key that is used to encrypt and decrypt the data, and use a 

different, changeable “user” key to encrypt and decrypt the master key. The user key 

should be tied directly to the user’s 

password with a password-based 

key derivation function (KDF), such 

as PBKDF2 [KAL00]. When a user wants a password-change, the cloud 

provider can use the KDF to gener-

ate a new user key and simply re-

encrypt the master key.
Of course, if the storage provider maintains users’ keys, then the provider’s employ-
ees, as well as anyone who successfully attacks their servers, can still access users’ 

private data. Users who truly need 

confidentiality should seek out pro-

viders who embrace a “trust no one” 
(TNO) philosophy and do not main-
tain keys to access user data.
Shared storage involves a threat of 

access from sharing neighbors.
Changing cryptographic keys for large 
amounts of encrypted data is time 
consuming. A protocol using master and 

user keys makes changing efficient in 

use of time.Sharing cryptographic keys with cloud 
storage providers potentially exposes 

sensitive data.