 Section 4.2  Web Attacks Targeting Users 
247  The case of computer artifacts is similar. An incoherent message, a web page riddled 
with grammatical errors, or a peculiar political position can all alert you that something 
is suspicious, but a well-crafted forgery may pass without question. The falsehoods that 

follow include both obvious and subtle forgeries.
Defaced Web Site 
The simplest attack, a website defacement, occurs when an attacker replaces or modi-
fies the content of a legitimate web site. For example, in January 2010, BBC reported 

that the web site of the incoming president of the European Union was defaced to present 

a picture of British comic actor Rowan Atkinson (Mr. Bean) instead of the president. 
The nature of these attacks varies. Often the attacker just writes a message like “You 
have been had” over the web-page content to prove that the site has been hacked. In 

other cases, the attacker posts a message opposing the message of the original web site, 

such as an animal rights group protesting mistreatment of animals at the site of a dog-
racing group. Other changes are more subtle. For example, recent political attacks have 

subtly replaced the content of a candidate’s own site to imply falsely that a candidate 

had said or done something unpopular. Or using website modification as a first step, the 

attacker can redirect a link on the page to a malicious location, for example, to present a 

fake login box and obtain the victim’s login ID and password. All these attacks attempt 

to defeat the integrity of the web page.
The objectives of website defacements also vary. Sometimes the goal is just to 
prove a point or embarrass the victim. Some attackers seek to make a political or ideo-

logical statement, whereas others seek only attention or respect. In some cases the 

attacker is showing a point, proving that it was possible to defeat integrity. Sites such 

as those of the New York Times
, the U.S. Defense Department or FBI, and political 
parties were frequently targeted this way. Sidebar 4-5 describes defacing an antivirus 

firm’s web site.
SIDEBAR 4-5 Antivirus Maker’s Web Site Hit
Website modifications are hardly new. But when a security firm’s web site is 
attacked, people take notice. For several hours on 17 October 2010, visi-

tors to a download site of security research and antivirus product company 

Kaspersky were redirected to sites serving fake antivirus software. 
After discovering the redirection, Kaspersky took the affected server 
offline, blaming the incident on “a faulty third-party application.” [
ITPro, 
19 October 2010]Bank robber Willy Sutton is reported to have said when asked why he 
robbed banks, “That’s where the money is.” What better way to hide mali-

cious code than by co-opting the web site of a firm whose customers are 

ready to install software, thinking they are protecting themselves against 

malicious code?