616 Chapter 9  
PrivacyWe have also studied cases in which we do not want to be identified. Anonymity and 
pseudonymity are useful in certain contexts. But data collection and correlation, on a 

scale made possible only with computers, can defeat anonymity and pseudonymity. As 

we computer professionals introduce new computer capabilities, we need to encourage 

a public debate on the related privacy issues.
In the next section we study data mining, a data retrieval process involving the link-
ing of databases.9.4 DATA MINING
In Chapter 7 we described the process and some of the security and privacy issues of 

data mining. Here we consider how to maintain privacy in the context of data mining.
Private sector data mining is a lucrative and rapidly growing industry. The more data 
are collected, the more opportunities open for learning from various aggregations. Deter-

mining trends, market preferences, and characteristics may be good because they lead to 

an efficient and effective market. But people become sensitive or may even be harmed 

if their private information becomes known without permission. See Sidebar 9-6 for an 

example of the degree to which data tracking can learn about individuals.
SIDEBAR 9-6  
Corporations Know More about You Than 
You Do Yourself
Large datasets enable organizations to make predictions about you, not only 
tailoring advertising but also suggesting likely health or behavior changes. 

For example, Duhigg [DUH12] describes how the Target Corporation 

amasses data about each actual and potential customer. “For decades, Tar-

get has collected vast amounts of data on every person who regularly walks 

into one of its stores. Whenever possible, Target assigns each shopper a 

unique code—known internally as the Guest ID number—that keeps tabs on 

everything they buy. ‘If you use a credit card or a coupon, or fill out a survey, 

or mail in a refund, or call the customer help line, or open an email we’ve sent 

you or visit our Website, we’ll record it and link it to your Guest ID,’” said one 

of Target’s data analysts. “We want to know everything we can.”
Duhigg describes how Target used these data to identify women who 
were likely in their second trimester of pregnancy, to offer them special 

prices on baby-related items. One young woman’s father was incensed 

when pregnancy-related Target advertising showed up in the surface 

mail—only to find out from an embarrassed daughter that a pregnancy test 

confirmed what Target already suspected.
These predictions are intrusive enough when they are correct, but 
they can be damaging when they are wrong. People can be denied credit, 

employment or mortgages, based on predictions about their likely behavior. 

As we have seen in this chapter, the data can be incorrect, the predic-

tions can be wrong, and those people affected can be unaware that their 

choices are being constrained in this way. 
