818 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
Mobile PhonesSmartphones constitute a second growing product area in the Internet of Things. Just as 
designers are interested in integrating smartphones into medical monitoring situations, 

arguing that many users already have a smartphone and that smartphones have available 

computing power to collect and analyze data, other product and service providers have 

the same idea: piggyback products and services on existing technology.
But there are dangers to using existing technology in unanticipated ways. As we 
describe in Chapter 5, operating systems are not just for conventional computers. Some 

form of operating system runs many products with computer functionality. In this sec-

tion we are interested in a wildly popular class of devices: smartphones, tablets, net-

books, e-readers, portable video game players, and similar products.If you have a smartphone, you are familiar with the operating system that runs tasks 
in the background (for example, to connect with local cell phone service and handle 

the transfer from one cell tower to another as you move), run tasks on demand (such 

as handling email or browsing web pages), perform monitoring and accounting func-

tions (including fetching email and status updates or counting cell phone minutes used). 

But most people do not think such a device has an operating system because, unlike 

a computer’s operating system, a cell phone’s operating system doesn’t present itself 

explicitly as one. You do not log in, there is no command line to execute commands, 

you cannot readily see or change the list of current tasks, there are no operating system 
functions or parameters to tune, task or process scheduling is invisible, and you cannot 

see or interpret the smartphone’s memory management. Thus, a mobile phone operat-

ing system does not seem to have most of the functionality we described earlier in this 

chapter. Do not be fooled, however. Mobile phones do have powerful operating systems.
Users and UsesThe three most popular operating systems over all mobile phone products today are 
Android (provided by Google), Windows (Microsoft), and iOS (Apple). Gartner Group 

predicts sales during 2014 of almost 1.1 billion copies (61 percent of total) Android, 

360 million (20 percent) of Windows, and 330 million (18 percent) of iOS (
CNet News
, 7 January 2014). Considering only smartphones, the respective market shares are 

85 percent for Android, 3 percent for Windows, and 12 percent for Apple.
A Juniper Networks report describes the results of a survey of over 4000 mobile 
device users in 2012 [JUN12]. It notes that 76 percent of respondents say they have 

used a mobile device to access sensitive data, such as banking information or medical 

records. Over 89 percent of business employees reported using a mobile device to access 

sensitive company information. Of those, 41 percent said they did so without com-

pany permission. At the same time, security managers expressed concerns about mobile 

phone usage leading to exposure of sensitive data because of lost devices (41 percent), 

inability to manage different devices, operating systems, and protocols (37 percent), and 

risk of employees introducing malware through these devices (32 percent).
Users were undecided about whether to trust their devices: 15 percent had great con-
fidence in the security of their devices, 18 percent had little, but 63 percent had not yet 
