 Section 11.6  Ethical Issues in Computer Security 
745  Even though religious groups and professional organizations promote certain standards 
of ethical behavior, ultimately each person is responsible for deciding what to do in a 

specific situation. Therefore, through our choices, each of us defines a personal set of 

ethical practices. A set of ethical principles is called an 
ethical system.An ethic is different from a law in several important ways. First, laws apply to 
everyone: One may disagree with the intent or the meaning of a law, but that is not an 

excuse for disobeying the law. Second, the courts have a regular process for determin-

ing which law supersedes which if two laws conflict. Third, the laws and the courts 

identify certain actions as right and others as wrong. From a legal standpoint, anything 

that is not illegal is right. Finally, laws can be enforced to rectify wrongs done by 

unlawful behavior.
By contrast, ethics are personal: two people may have different frameworks for 
making moral judgments. What one person deems perfectly justifiable, another would 

never consider doing. Second, ethical positions can and often do come into conflict. 

As an example, the value of a human life is highly important in most ethical systems. 

Most people would not cause the sacrifice of one life, but in the right context some 

would approve of sacrificing one person to save another, or one to save many oth-

ers. The value of one life cannot be readily measured against the value of others, and 

many ethical decisions must be founded on precisely this ambiguity. Yet, there is no 

arbiter of ethical positions: when two ethical goals collide, each person must choose 

which goal is dominant. Third, two people may assess ethical values differently; no 

universal standard of right and wrong exists in ethical judgments. Nor can one person 

simply look to what another has done as guidance for choosing the right thing to do. 

Finally, there is no enforcement for ethical choices. We summarize these differences 

in Table 11-3.
TABLE 11-3 
Comparison of Law and Ethics
LawEthics
Described by formal, written documentsDescribed by unwritten principles

Interpreted by courtsInterpreted by each individual

Established by legislatures representing all peoplePresented by philosophers, religions, professional 
groupsApplied to everyoneChosen personally

Priority determined by courts if two laws conflictPriority determined by an individual if two 
principles conflict“Right” arbitrated finally by courtNot arbitrated externally

Enforced by police and courtsEnforced by intangibles such as principles and 
beliefs