 Section 11.7  Incident Analysis with Ethics 
751  completed. Dave has access to workload data and learns that the evening batch runs are 
complementary to daytime programming tasks; that is, adding programming work during 

the night shift would not adversely affect performance of the computer to other users.
Dave comes back after normal hours to develop a program to manage his own stock 
portfolio. His drain on the system is minimal, and he uses very few expendable supplies, 

such as printer paper. Is Dave’s behavior ethical?
Values Issues
Some of the ethical principles involved in this incident are listed below.
• Ownership of resources. 
The company owns the computing resources and pro-
vides them for its own computing needs.
• Effect on others. 
Although unlikely, a flaw in Dave’s program could adversely 
affect other users, perhaps even denying them service because of a system 

failure.
• Universalism principle. 
If Dave’s action is acceptable, it should also be accept-
able for others to do the same. However, too many employees working in the 

evening could reduce system effectiveness.
• Possibility of detection, punishment. 
Dave does not know whether his action 
would be wrong or right if discovered by his company. If his company decided 

it was improper use, Dave could be punished.
What other issues are involved? Which principles are more important than others?
AnalysisThe utilitarian would consider the total excess of good over bad for all people. Dave 
receives benefit from use of computer time, although for this application the amount of 

time is not large. Dave has a possibility of punishment, but he may rate that as unlikely. 

The company is neither harmed nor helped by this activity. Thus, the utilitarian could 

argue that Dave’s use is justifiable.
The universalism principle seems as if it would cause a problem because clearly if 
everyone did this, quality of service would degrade. A utilitarian would say that each 

new user has to weigh good and bad separately. Dave’s use might not burden the system, 

and neither might Ann’s; but when Bill wants to use the system, it is heavily enough 

used that Bill’s use 
would affect other people.
Alternative Situations
Would it affect the ethics of the situation if any of the following actions or characteris-
tics were considered?• Dave began a business managing stock portfolios for many people for profit.
• Dave’s salary was below average for his background, implying that Dave was 
due the computer use as a fringe benefit.
• Dave’s employer knew of other employees doing similar things and tacitly 
approved by not seeking to stop them.
