566 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computinglogin fails. Some VPNs provide host-scanning capabilities that inspect hosts attempting 
to log in. These host scanners can be configured to ensure that a malware scan was run 

recently, that company certificates are present, and that certain applications are running. 

This feature can be useful for companies that rely on software agents for DLP because 

the host scanner can prevent systems without enabled DLP agents from logging in.
Another solution for maintaining DLP capability after moving to the cloud is to 
insert the DLP capability at the network boundaries of the cloud environment. This 

solution is generally only an option for IaaS deployments because they are usually flex-

ible enough to allow customers to deploy DLP as a VM, as well as to configure their 

VM networks so that all outgoing traffic must route through that DLP VM.
Cloud Application SecurityWriting secure software is no different in a cloud environment than in any other, so 

Chapter 3 serves as an excellent starting point for this topic. In fact, in many ways, 

programming is the aspect of cloud that the security community is most experienced 

with. Web hosting—a service that allows customers to build custom web applications 

on top of the service provider’s hardware and software stack—became the first PaaS 

in the early 1990s, long before the term “cloud” was coined. Ever since that happened, 

developers have had to learn to protect applications in shared environments.
The biggest adjustment you need to make when writing applications for cloud 
deployment is to understand how your threats change. Unfortunately, there is no com-

prehensive list of specific threats you’ll need to worry about, since those will greatly 

depend on the specific implementation of your cloud environment: the cloud computing 

platform, configurations, libraries, etc. There are, however, a couple of general threats 

that come up as a result of the cloud computing paradigm:• Attacks against shared resources
. Even if you are not sharing your cloud envi-
ronment with malicious users, you will almost certainly be sharing it with vul-

nerable applications. If multiple applications share a database as a service, for 

instance, an SQL injection vulnerability in one can impact them all [SUL13]. 
A 2012 study found that, given a few hours, a malicious VM running on mod-

ern hardware and a modern hypervisor was able to infer the private key being 

used by a victim VM collocated on the same system using a side-channel attack 

[ZHA12]. A cryptographic side-channel attack is a complex mathematical 
operation in which an attacker infers a victim’s cryptographic key by carefully 

observing the cryptographic operation’s side effects, such as heat generated by 

the processor, processor response times, and the like.
• Insecure APIs
. Using the APIs exposed by cloud services and third-party web-
sites is a necessary part of building a cloud application. Unfortunately, a survey 

of cloud security incidents from January 2008 through February 2012 found 

that 29 percent of cloud outages were caused by “Insecure Interfaces & APIs” 

[KO13]. A 2012 study found SSL certificate validation to be “completely bro-

ken” in cloud-focused APIs from a number of major vendors, including Amazon 

and PayPal, leaving SSL connections to these APIs vulnerable to man-in-the-

middle attacks [GEO12].