 Section 3.2  Malicious Code—Malware 
171  Trojan horses, one Trojan horse transmitter, eight varieties of adware, two viruses, two 
worms, and one JavaScript attack. So all attack types are important, and, as Sidebar 3-5 

illustrates, general malicious code has a significant impact on computing. 
We preface our discussion of the details of these types of malware with a brief report 
on the long history of malicious code. Over time, malicious code types have evolved 

as the mode of computing itself has changed from multiuser mainframes to single-user 
personal computers to networked systems to the Internet. From this background you 

will be able to understand not only where today’s malicious code came from but also 

how it might evolve.
History of Malicious CodeThe popular literature and press continue to highlight the effects of malicious code as 
if it were a relatively recent phenomenon. It is not. Fred Cohen [COH87] is sometimes 
SIDEBAR 3-5 The Real Impact of Malware
Measuring the real impact of malware, especially in financial terms, is 
challenging if not impossible. Organizations are loath to report breaches 

except when required by law, for fear of damage to reputation, credit rating, 

and more. Many surveys report number of incidents, financial impact, and 

types of attacks, but by and large they are convenience surveys that do not 

necessarily represent the real situation. Shari Lawrence Pfleeger [PFL08], 

Rachel Rue [RUE09], and Ian Cook [COO10] describe in more detail why 

these reports are interesting but not necessarily trustworthy.
For the last several years, Verizon has been studying breaches expe-
rienced by many customers willing to collaborate and provide data; the 

Verizon reports are among the few credible and comparable studies avail-

able today. Although you should remember that the results are particular to 

the type of customer Verizon supports, the results are nonetheless interest-

ing for illustrating that malware has had severe impacts in a wide variety of 

situations. The 2014 Verizon Breach Report [VER14] shows that, from 2010 to 
2013, the percentage of data breaches motivated by financial gain fell from 

about 90 percent to 55 percent, while the number of breaches for purpose 

of espionage rose from near zero percent to almost 25 percent. Although 

the figures show some swings from year to year, the overall trend is down-

ward for financial gain and upward for espionage. (Verizon acknowledges 

part of the increase is no doubt due to more comprehensive reporting from 

a larger number of its reporting partners; thus the data may reflect better 

data collection from more sources.)
Do not be misled, however. Espionage certainly has a financial aspect 
as well. The cost of a data breach at a point of sale (fraud at the checkout 

desk) is much easier to calculate than the value of an invention or a pricing 
strategy. Knowing these things, however, can help a competitor win sales 

away from the target of the espionage.
