 Section 9.7  Privacy Impacts of Emerging Technologies 
643  Gellman lists several other findings that are important for you to consider before you 
store sensitive information in the cloud:
• The location of information in the cloud may have significant effects on the 
privacy and confidentiality protections of information and on the privacy obliga-

tions of those who process or store the information.• Information in the cloud may have more than one legal location at the same 
time, with differing legal consequences.
• Laws could oblige a cloud provider to examine user records for evidence of 
criminal activity and other matters.
• Legal uncertainties make it difficult to assess the status of information in the 
cloud as well as the privacy and confidentiality protections available to users. 
• Responses to the privacy and confidentiality risks of cloud computing include 
better policies and practices by cloud providers, changes to laws, and more vigi-

lance by users. Many cloud providers offer convincing arguments that the cloud is more secure than 
conventional computing and storage. But as Gellman and Trope and Ray suggest, caveat 

emptor applies to the cloud, too. Before you put anything in the cloud, read the terms 

of service and the privacy policy, remembering that the vendor can change those agree-

ments at any time. Indeed, Trope and Ray point out that, even if you terminate your 

agreement with a cloud vendor, the vendor may be able to keep your backup copies 

anyway, based on the terms of service.
Conclusions on Emerging Technologies
Technologies continue to emerge and mature, and we have provided only a few exam-

ples of great technological promise but considerable privacy risks. Should you be think-

ing of adopting such technology, be sure to evaluate the privacy implications and then 

follow them carefully as the technology evolves.
Our experience with security has shown that if we consider security early in a sys-
tem’s life, wider options are available for security. The other thing experience has 

repeatedly shown is that adding security to a nearly complete system is difficult, if not 

impossible. For both reasons, privacy and security analysis should occur along with the 

technology and application development.
Unfortunately, for all emerging technologies, there seems to be a financial pressure 
to create devices or services first and then deal with use and privacy issues later. This 

approach is exactly the wrong way to design any system. Unfortunately, people seem 

to be starting with the technology and working backwards to systems that would use it. 

The development approach should work forward (specify the necessary requirements, 

including privacy considerations, and develop a system to implement those require-

ments reliably) to build in privacy design features and controls, and also work back-

wards, to investigate what might go wrong with privacy and then add design features to 

prevent these lapses.
