 Section 4.2  Web Attacks Targeting Users 
257  clicked is something like “For a free prize, click [Here].” The victim clicks where 
[Here] is on the screen, but [Here] is not a button at all; it is just a picture directly under 

[Yes] (which is invisible). The mouse click selects the [Yes] button. 
It is easy to see how this attack would be used. The attacker chooses an action to 
which the user would ordinarily not agree, such as
• Do you really want to delete all your files?
• Do you really want to send your contacts list to a spam merchant?

• Do you really want to install this program?

• Do you really want to change your password to AWordYouDontKnow?

• Do you really want to allow the world to have write access to your profile?
For each such question, the clickjacking attacker only has to be able to guess where 
the confirmation box will land, make it transparent, and slip the For a Free Prize, Click 

[Here] box under the invisible [Yes] button of the dangerous action’s confirmation box.
These examples give you a sense of the potential harm of clickjacking. A surveil-
lance attack might activate a computer camera and microphone, and the attack would 

cover the confirmation box; this attack was used against Adobe Flash, as shown in the 

video at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxyLbpldmuU. Sidebar 4-7 describes how 

numerous Facebook users were duped by a clickjacking attack.
A clickjacking attack succeeds because of what the attacker can do: 
• choose and load a page with a confirmation box that commits the user to an 
action with one or a small number of mouse clicks (for example, “Do you want 

to install this program? [Yes] [Cancel]”)
• change the image’s coloring to transparent

• move the image to any position on the screen
SIDEBAR 4-7 Facebook Clickjack Attack
In Summer 2010, thousands of Facebook users were tricked into posting 
that they “liked” a particular site. According to BBC news (3 June 2010), 

victims were presented with sites that many of their friends had “liked,” 

such as a video of the World Cup tennis match. When the users clicked 

to see the site, they were presented with another message asking them to 

click to confirm they were over age 18.
What the victims did not see was that the confirmation box was a 
sham underneath an invisible box asking them to confirm they “liked” the 

target web site. When the victims clicked that they were over 18, they were 

really confirming their “like” of the video.
This attack seems to have had no malicious impact, other than driving up the “like” figures on certain benign web sites. You can readily imagine 

serious harm from this kind of attack, however.
