 Section 6.6  Cryptography in Network Security 
433  Network EncryptionEncryption is probably the most important and versatile tool for a network security 
expert. We have seen in earlier chapters that encryption is powerful for providing pri-

vacy, authenticity, integrity, and separation. Because networks involve even greater risks, 

they often secure data with encryption, perhaps in combination with other controls.
Before we begin to study the use of encryption to counter network security threats, 
let us stress four points. • Encryption protects only what is encrypted (which should be obvious but isn’t). 
Recognize that data are exposed between a user’s fingertips and the encryption 

process before they are transmitted, and they are exposed again once they have 

been decrypted on the remote end. The best encryption cannot protect against a 

malicious Trojan horse that intercepts data before the point of encryption. 
• Designing encryption algorithms is best left to professionals. Cryptography is 
filled with subtlety, and a seemingly minor change can have a major impact on 

security. 
• Encryption is no more secure than its key management. If an attacker can guess 
or deduce a weak encryption key, the game is over.
• Encryption is not a panacea or silver bullet. A flawed system design with encryp-
tion is still a flawed system design. People who do not understand encryption 

sometimes mistake it for fairy dust to sprinkle on a system for magical protec-

tion. This book would not be needed if such fairy dust existed.
In network applications, encryption can be applied either between two hosts (called 
link encryption) or between two applications (called end-to-end encryption). We consider 

both below. With either form of encryption, key distribution is always a problem. Encryp-

tion keys must be delivered to the sender and receiver in a secure manner. In a later sec-

tion of this chapter, we also investigate techniques for safe key distribution in networks. 

Finally, we study a cryptographic facility for a network computing environment.
Modes of Network EncryptionEncryption can be employed in a network through two general modes: link and end-to-
end. They perform different functions and have different strengths and weaknesses. And 

they can even be used together, even if somewhat redundantly.
Link Encryption In link encryption, data are encrypted just before the system places them on the physi-cal communications link. In this case, encryption occurs at layer 1 or 2 in the OSI 

model. (A similar situation occurs with TCP/IP protocols, which have a similar but 

shorter layered model.) Similarly, decryption occurs just as the communication arrives 

at and enters the receiving com-

puter. A model of link encryption 

is shown in Figure 6-36. As you 

can see, the data travel in plaintext 

through the top layers of the model Link encryption covers a communication 
from one node to the next on the path 

to the destination.