244 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
The basic concept is of a shared secret, something only the two entities on the end 
should know. A human man-in-the-middle attack can be defeated if one party asks the 

other a pointed question about a dinner they had together or details of a recent corporate 

event, or some other common topic. 

Similarly, a shared secret for com-

puter systems can help authenticate. 
Possible secrets could involve the 

time or date of last login, time of 

last update, or size of a particular 

application file.
One-Time Password 
As its name implies, a one-time password
 is good for only one use. To use a one-time 
password scheme, the two end parties need to have a shared secret list of passwords. 

When one password is used, both parties mark the word off the list and use the next 

word the next time.
The SecurID token, introduced in Chapter 2, generates a new random number every 
 60 seconds. The receiving computer has a program that can compute the random number 

for any given moment, so it can compare the value entered against the expected value.
Out-of-Band Communication Out-of-band communication means transferring one fact along a communication path 

separate from that of another fact. For example, bank card PINs are always mailed sepa-

rately from the bank card so that if the envelope containing the card is stolen, the thief 

cannot use the card without the PIN. Similarly, if a customer calls a bank about having 

forgotten a PIN, the bank does not simply provide a new PIN in that conversation over 

the phone; the bank mails a separate letter containing a new PIN to the account-hold-

er’s address on file. In this way, if someone were impersonating the customer, the PIN 

would not go to the impersonator. Some banks confirm large Internet fund transfers by 

sending a text message to the user’s mobile phone. However, as Sidebar 4-3 indicates, 

mobile phones are also subject to man-in-the-middle attacks.The U.S. Defense Department uses a secure telephone called a STU-III. A customer 
places a call and, after establishing communication with the correct party on the other 
end, both parties press a button for the phones to enter secure mode; the phones then 

encrypt the rest of the conversation. As part of the setup for going into secure mode, the 

two phones together derive a random number that they then display in a window on the 

phone. To protect against a man-in-the-middle attack, callers are instructed to recite the 

number so that both parties agree they have the same number on their phone’s window. 

A wiretapper in the middle might be able to intercept the initial call setup and call the 
intended recipient on a second STU-III phone. Then, sitting with the earpiece of one STU-

III up against the mouthpiece of the other, the intruder could perform a man-in-the-middle 

attack. However, these two phones would establish two different sessions and display dif-

ferent random numbers, so the end parties would know their conversation was being inter-

cepted because, for example, one would hear the number 101 but see 234 on the display.
As these examples show, the use of some outside information, either a shared secret 
or something communicated out of band, can foil a man-in-the-middle attack.To be effective, a shared secret must be 

something no malicious middle agent 
can know. 
