 Section 11.5  Computer Crime 
741  The most widely reported application of the law was in February 2005 when Choice-
point disclosed that some California residents had been affected by loss of 145,000 

pieces of personal identity information. Initially only affected California residents were 

informed, but after news of that disclosure was made public, Choicepoint revealed how 

many people total were involved and began notifying them.
International Dimensions
So far we have explored laws in the United States. But many people outside the United 

States will read this book, perhaps wondering why they should learn about laws from a 

foreign country. This question has two answers.
Technically, computer security laws in the United States are similar to those in many 
other countries: Lawmakers in each country learn about subtle legal points and inter-

pretation or enforcement difficulties from laws passed in other countries. Many other 

countries, such as Australia, Canada, Brazil, Japan, the Czech Republic, and India, have 

recently enacted computer crime laws. These laws cover offenses such as fraud, unau-

thorized computer access, data privacy, and computer misuse. The International Think 

Tank on Justice, Peace and Security in Cyberspace (http://www.cybercrimelaw.net/

Cybercrimelaw.html) maintains a splendid repository of national laws on cybercrime, 

from over 70 countries from Albania to Zambia.
The second reason to study laws from a foreign country is that the Internet is an 
international entity. Citizens in one country are affected by users in other countries, and 

users in one country may be subject to the laws in other countries. Therefore, you need 

to know which laws may affect you. The international nature of computer crime makes 

life much more complicated. For example, a citizen of country A may sit in country 

B, connect to an ISP in country C, use a compromised host in country D, and attack 

machines in country E (not to mention traveling on communications lines through doz-

ens of other countries). To prosecute this crime may require cooperation of all five 

countries. The attacker may need to be extradited from B to E to be prosecuted there, 

but there may be no extradition treaty for computer crimes between B and E. And the 

evidence obtained in D may be inadmissible in E because of the manner in which it was 

obtained or stored. And the crime in E may not be a crime in B, so the law enforcement 

authorities, even if sympathetic, may be unable to act.
Although computer crime is truly international, differing statutes in different juris-
dictions inhibit prosecution of international computer crime. In the remainder of this 
section we briefly discuss laws around the world that differ from U.S. laws and that 

should be of interest to computer security students.Council of Europe Agreement on Cybercrime
In November 2001, the United States, Canada, Japan, and 22 European countries signed 
the Council of Europe Agreement on Cybercrime to define cybercrime activities and 

support their investigation and prosecution across national boundaries. The signifi-

cance of this treaty is not so much that these activities are illegal but that the countries 

acknowledged them as crimes across their borders, making it easier for law enforce-

ment agencies to cooperate and for criminals to be extradited for offenses against one 
