 Section 4.2  Web Attacks Targeting Users 
245  Continuous Authentication In several places in this book we argue the need for a continuous authentication mech-

anism. Although not perfect in those regards, strong encryption does go a long way 

toward a solution.
If two parties carry on an encrypted communication, an interloper wanting to enter 
into the communication must break the encryption or cause it to be reset with a new 

key exchange between the interceptor and one end. (This latter technique is known as a 

session hijack, which we study in Chapter 6.) Both of these attacks are complicated but 

not impossible. However, this countermeasure is foiled if the attacker can intrude in the 

communication pre-encryption or post-decryption. These problems do not detract from 

the general strength of encryption to 

maintain authentication between two 

parties. But be aware that encryption 

by itself is not a magic fairy dust that 

counters all security failings and that 

misused cryptography can impart a 
false sense of security.
These mechanisms—signatures, shared secrets, one-time passwords and out-of-band 
communications—are all ways of establishing a context that includes authentic parties 

and excludes imposters.
4.2 WEB ATTACKS TARGETING USERS
We next consider two classes of situations involving web content. The first kind involves 

false content, most likely because the content was modified by someone unauthorized; 

with these the intent is to mislead the viewer. The second, more dangerous, kind seeks 

to harm the viewer.
SIDEBAR 4-3 Man-in-the-Mobile Attack
The Zeus Trojan horse is one of the most prolific pieces of malicious code. 
It is configurable, easy for an attacker to use, and effective. Its owners con-

tinually update and modify it, to the extent that security firm Symantec has 

counted over 70,000 variations of the basic code. Because of the num-

ber of strains, malicious code detectors must update their definitions con-
stantly. Zeus sells on the hacker market for a few hundred dollars. Targeting 

financial site interactions, it can pay for itself with a single exploit.Zeus has taken on the mobile phone messaging market, too. Accord-
ing to security firm S21Sec, Zeus now has an application that can be 

unintentionally downloaded to smartphones; using SMS messaging, Zeus 

communicates with its command and control center. But because it is 

installed in the mobile, it can also block or alter text messages sent by a 

financial institution to a customer’s mobile phone.
Encryption can provide continuous 
authentication, but care must be taken 

to set it up properly and guard the end 

points.