118 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
“Who is the president of your organization?” If we have a low degree of trust, we may 
even act to exclude an outsider, as in “I will mail a check directly to your charity rather 

than give you my credit card number.”
For each of these interactions, we have what we might call a “trust threshold,” a 
degree to which we are willing to believe an unidentified individual. This threshold 

exists in commercial interactions, too. When Acorn Manufacturing Company sends Big 

Steel Company an order for 10,000 sheets of steel, to be shipped within a week and paid 

for within ten days, trust abounds. The order is printed on an Acorn form, signed by 

someone identified as Helene Smudge, Purchasing Agent. Big Steel may begin prepar-

ing the steel even before receiving money from Acorn. Big Steel may check Acorn’s 

credit rating to decide whether to ship the order without payment first. If suspicious, 

Big Steel might telephone Acorn and ask to speak to Ms. Smudge in the purchasing 

department. But more likely Big Steel will actually ship the goods without knowing 

who Ms. Smudge is, whether she is actually the purchasing agent, whether she is autho-
rized to commit to an order of that size, or even whether the signature is actually hers. 

Sometimes a transaction like this occurs by fax, so that Big Steel does not even have 

an original signature on file. In cases like this one, which occur daily, trust is based on 

appearance of authenticity (such as a printed, signed form), outside information (such 
as a credit report), and urgency (Acorn’s request that the steel be shipped quickly).
Establishing Trust Electronically
For electronic communication to succeed, we must develop similar ways for two parties 
to establish trust without having met. A common thread in our personal and business 

interactions is the ability to have someone or something vouch for the existence and 

integrity of one or both parties. The police, the Chamber of Commerce, or the Better 

Business Bureau vouches for the authenticity of a caller. Acorn indirectly vouches for 

the fact that Ms. Smudge is its purchasing agent by transferring the call to her in the 

purchasing department when Big Steel calls for her. In a sense, the telephone company 

vouches for the authenticity of a party by listing someone in the directory. This concept 

of “vouching for” by a third party can be a basis for trust in commercial settings where 

two parties do not know each other.
The trust issue we need to address for digital signatures is authenticity of the public key. If Monique signs a document with her private key, anyone else can decrypt the 

signature with her public key to verify that only Monique could have signed it. The 

only problem is being able to obtain Monique’s public key in a way in which we can 

adequately trust that the key really belongs to her, that is, that the key was not circulated 

by some evil actor impersonating Monique. In the next section we present a trustworthy 

means to bind a public key with an identity.
Trust Based On a Common Respected Individual
A large company may have several divisions, each division may have several depart-
ments, each department may have several projects, and each project may have several 

task groups (with variations in the names, the number of levels, and the degree of com-

pleteness of the hierarchy). The top executive may not know by name or sight every 
