730 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicstake home the software, only to find that it is free from flaws but does not fit your needs. 
You are entitled to a reasonable period to inspect the software, long enough to try out its 

features. If you decide within a reasonably short period of time that the product is not 
for you, you can cite UCC §2-601 

to obtain a refund. (You may have 

to convince the vendor that you are 

returning all you received, that is, 

that you did not install and keep a 

copy on your computer.)
More often, though, the reason you want to return the software is because it simply 
is not of high enough quality. Unfortunately, correctness of software is more difficult to 

enforce legally.
I Want It to Be Good
Quality demands for mass market software are usually outside the range of legal 
enforcement for several reasons.
• Mass-market software is seldom totally bad. Certain features may not work, and 
faults may prevent some features from working as specified or as advertised. 

But the software works for most of its many users or works most of the time for 

all of its users.• The manufacturer has “deep pockets.” An individual suing a major manufacturer 
could find that the manufacturer has a permanent legal staff of dozens of full-

time attorneys. Bringing a suit is prohibitively expensive for an individual.
• Legal remedies typically result in monetary awards for damages, not a mandate 
to fix the faulty software.
• The manufacturer has little incentive to fix small problems. Unless a problem 
will seriously damage a manufacturer’s image or possibly leave the manufac-

turer open to large damage amounts, there is little justification to fix problems 

that affect only a small number of users or that do not render the product unfit 

for general use.Thus, legal remedies are most appropriate only for a large complaint, such as one 
from a government or one representing a large class of dissatisfied and vocal users. 

The “fit for use” provision of the UCC dictates that the product must be usable for its 

intended purpose; software that does not work is clearly not usable. The UCC may help 

you get your money back, but you may not necessarily end up with working software.
Some manufacturers are very attentive to their customers. When flaws are discov-
ered, the manufacturers promptly investigate the problems and fix serious ones imme-

diately, perhaps holding smaller corrections for a later release. These companies are 

motivated more by public image or moral obligation than by legal requirement.
Roland Trope [TRO04] proposes a warranty of cyberworthiness. The warranty would 
state that the manufacturer made a diligent search for security vulnerabilities and had 

removed all known critical ones, Furthermore, the vendor will continue to search for 

vulnerabilities after release and, on learning of any critical ones, will contact affected 
Software is supposed to be returnable 

for a refund in a reasonable time.
