 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
609  the data were collected and the manner in which they were handled (validated, 
stored, controlled).• Data left in place.
 If possible, leave data with the original owner or collector. 
This step helps guard against possible misuses of the data from expanded mis-

sion just because the data are available.
• Policy
. Establish a clear policy for data privacy. Discourage violation of privacy 
policies.These steps would significantly help ensure protection of privacy. Also, the United 
States is beginning to address the notion of consolidating the many state-based data 

breach laws into one comprehensive law. In 2002, California passed the first statewide 

law to address the growing problem of security breaches of consumer databases of per-

sonally identifiable information. California law thus requires any “state agency, or a 

person or business that conducts business in California, that owns or licenses computer-

ized data that includes personal information, as defined, to disclose in specified ways, 

any breach of the security of the data, as defined, to any resident of California whose 

unencrypted personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, acquired 

by an unauthorized person.” The law permits delayed notification only “if a law 

enforcement agency determines that it would impede a criminal investigation.” It also 

requires any agency that licenses 

such information, such as a motor 

vehicle bureau or department of reg-

ulatory affairs, to notify the owner 

or licensee of the information of any 

security breach that could threaten 

the privacy or integrity of the data. 
Many other states passed similar laws, and periodic attempts to replace them with 
comprehensive, federal legislation have failed. In the meantime, the European Union 

issued a Directive on Privacy and Electronic Communication in 2009, requiring each 

E.U. country to implement it over the next few years. Selyukh [SEL14] reports that, 

spurred by massive data breaches at Target (a chain of department stores), Neiman Mar-

cus (a chain of luxury department stores), and Michaels (a chain of crafts supply stores), 
the United States is trying again to consolidate the many state privacy laws: 47 states 

plus Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. (Only Alabama, New Mexico, and 

South Dakota have no breach legislation.) The National Retail Federation points out 

that, “A preemptive federal breach notification law would allow retailers to focus their 

resources on complying with one single law and enable consumers to know their rights 

regardless of where they live,” But some states fear that a weaker federal law would take 

precedence over stronger state statutes.
Identity TheftAs the name implies, identity theft means taking or assuming another person’s identity. 
For example, using another person’s credit card without permission is fraud. As of 1998 

in the United States, with the Identity Theft and Assumption Deterrence Act, taking 
State laws require notification of loss of 

personal data as a result of a computer 

incident.