 Section 6.7  Firewalls 
455  types of firewalls and then examine each type to see what it is, how it works, and what 
its strengths and weaknesses are. Different types of firewalls implement different types 

of policies; for example, simple firewalls called screening routers judge based only on 

header data: addresses. More complex firewalls look into the content being communi-

cated to make access decisions. Simplicity in a security policy is not a bad thing; the 

important question to ask when choosing a type of firewall is what threats an installa-

tion needs to counter.
Because a firewall is a type of host, it is often as programmable as a good-quality 
workstation. While a screening router can be fairly primitive, the tendency is to imple-

ment even routers on complete computers with operating systems because editors and 

other programming tools assist in configuring and maintaining the router. However, 

firewall developers are minimalists: They try to eliminate from the firewall all that is 

not strictly necessary for the firewall’s functionality. There is a good reason for this 

minimal constraint: to give as little assistance as possible to a successful attacker. Thus, 

firewalls tend not to have user accounts so that, for example, they have no password file 

to conceal. Indeed, the most desirable firewall is one that runs contentedly in a back 

room; except for periodic scanning of its audit logs, there is seldom a reason to touch it.
Network Technology Background
Before we describe firewalls, we need to reiterate and expand upon a bit of network 
technology that we introduced at the start of this chapter. Figure 6-52 depicts what is 

known as the ISO Open Systems Interconnect (OSI) model of networking. 
In this model, data are generated at the top layer (7—Application) by some applica-tion program. Then the data pass through the other six layers; at each layer the data 

are reformatted, packaged, and addressed. For example, the transport layer performs 

error checking and correction to ensure a reliable data flow, the network layer handles 

addressing to determine how to route data, and the data link layer divides data into 

manageable blocks for efficient transfer. The last layer, the physical layer, deals with 

the electrical or other technology by which signals are transmitted across some physical FIGURE 6-52 OSI Reference ModelMM
M
MH3H2H2
T3T3T2
MH3H2T3T2
H1T1Receiver7−Application6−Presentation5−Session4−Transport3−Network2−Data Link1−Physical7−Application6−Presentation5−Session4−Transport3−Network2−Data Link1−PhysicalMMSender