 Section 13.2  Economics 
823  But such investment decisions are not made in a vacuum. Requests for cybersecu-
rity resources usually have to compete with requests from other business units, and 

the final decisions are made according to what is best for the business. Thus, there 

has always been keen interest in how to make a convincing argument that security 

is good for business. When companies have to balance investments in security with 

other business investments, it is difficult to find data to support such decision-making. 

Because of the many demands on an organization’s finite resources, any request for 

those resources must be accompanied by a good business case. A 
business case
 for a 
given expenditure is a proposal that justifies the use of resources. It usually includes 

the following items:
• a description of the problem or need to be addressed by the expenditure
• a list of possible solutions

• a list of constraints on solving the problem

• a list of underlying assumptions

• an analysis of each alternative, including risks, costs, and benefits

• a summary of why the proposed investment is good for the organization
Thus, the business case sets out everything a manager needs for making an informed 
decision about the proposal. In many instances, several proposals are considered at once, some competing with 
others. For example, one group may propose to implement new network security while 

another focuses on physical security. No matter what the proposal, it must be framed as 

a business opportunity.
Respected business publications often address the problem of technology investment. 
For example, Kaplan and Norton [KAP92] suggest that any evaluation of an existing or 

proposed investment in technology be reported in several ways at once to form a “bal-

anced scorecard”: • from a 
customer view, addressing issues such as customer satisfaction
• from an 
operational
 view, looking at an organization’s core competencies 
• from a 
financial
 view, considering measures such as return on investment or 
share price • from an 
improvement
 view, assessing how the investment will affect market 
leadership and add value
Companies typically focus exclusively on the financial view, in part because the 
other views are less tangible and more difficult to quantify. As hard as it is to obtain 

good data on how much similar companies spend on security, it is even more difficult 

to determine which firms, or even which business sectors, are likely attack targets 

and to what degree. (That is, there is no basis for reporting that attackers worldwide 

expend 
x percent of their energy attacking financial institutions and 
y percent against 
medical organizations. We can count number of reported attacks for each of these 

communities, but we have no idea how much effort attackers had to put into these 

attacks.)