210 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programmingcover SSL in Chapter 6.) The OpenSSL implementation is used by the majority of web 
sites; two major packages using OpenSSL account for over 66 percent of sites using 

SSL. Because the adoption of OpenSSL is so vast, this one vulnerability affects a huge 

number of sites, putting the majority of Internet users at risk. The warning about lack 

of diversity in software is especially relevant here. However, cryptography is a delicate 

topic; even correctly written code can leak sensitive information, not to mention the 

numerous subtle ways such code can be wrong. Thus, there is a good argument for hav-

ing a small number of cryptographic implementations that analysts can scrutinize rigor-

ously. But common code presents a single or common point for mass failure.
Furthermore, diversity is expensive, as large users such as companies or universi-
ties must maintain several kinds of systems instead of focusing their effort on just one. 

Furthermore, diversity would be substantially enhanced by a large number of compet-

ing products, but the economics of the market make it difficult for many vendors to 

all profit enough to stay in business. Geer refined the argument in [GEE03], which 

was debated by James Whittaker [WHI03b] and David Aucsmith [AUC03]. There is no 

obvious right solution for this dilemma.
Tight integration of products is a similar concern. The Windows operating system is 
tightly linked to Internet Explorer, the Office suite, and the Outlook email handler. A 

vulnerability in one of these can also affect the others. Because of the tight integration, 

fixing a vulnerability in one subsystem can have an impact on the others. On the other 

hand, with a more diverse (in terms of vendors) architecture, a vulnerability in another 

vendor’s browser, for example, can affect Word only to the extent that the two systems 

communicate through a well-defined interface.
A different form of change occurs when a program is loaded into memory for execu-
tion. Address-space-layout randomization
 is a technique by which a module is loaded 
into different locations at different times (using a relocation device similar to base and 

bounds registers, described in Chapter 5). However, when an entire module is relocated 

as a unit, getting one real address gives the attacker the key to compute the addresses of 

all other parts of the module. Next we turn from product to process. How is good software produced? As with the 
code properties, these process approaches are not a recipe: doing these things does not 
guarantee good code. However, like the code characteristics, these processes tend to 

reflect approaches of people who successfully develop secure software.
Testing
Testing is a process activity that concentrates on product quality: It seeks to locate poten-
tial product failures before they actually occur. The goal of testing is to make the product 

failure free (eliminating the possibility of failure); realistically, however, testing will only 

reduce the likelihood or limit the impact of failures. Each software problem (especially 

when it relates to security) has the potential not only for making software fail but also for 

adversely affecting a business or a life. The failure of one control may expose a vulner-

ability that is not ameliorated by any number of functioning controls. Testers improve 

software quality by finding as many faults as possible and carefully documenting their 

findings so that developers can locate the causes and repair the problems if possible.
