156 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingThe data structure is essentially a work ticket, requiring a stamp of authorization; 
once authorized, it is put on a queue of things to be done. Normally the access control 
mediator process receives the data structure, determines whether the access should be 

allowed, and either rejects the access and stops processing or allows the access and for-

wards the data structure to the file handler for processing.
To carry out this authorization sequence, the access control mediator would have to 
look up the file name (and the user identity and any other relevant parameters) in tables. 

The mediator could compare the names in the table to the file name in the data structure 

to determine whether access is appropriate. More likely, the mediator would copy the 

file name into its own local storage area and compare from there. Comparing from the 

copy leaves the data structure in the user’s area, under the user’s control.
At this point the incomplete mediation flaw can be exploited. While the mediator is 
checking access rights for the file my_file, the user could change the file name descrip-

tor to your_file, the value shown in Figure 3-13. Having read the work ticket once, the 

mediator would not be expected to reread the ticket before approving it; the mediator 

would approve the access and send the now-modified descriptor to the file handler.
The problem is called a time-of-check to time-of-use flaw because it exploits the 
delay between the two actions: check and use. That is, between the time the access was 

checked and the time the result of the check was used, a change occurred, invalidating 

the result of the check.Security ImplicationThe security implication here is clear: Checking one action and performing another is an example of ineffective access control, leading to confidentiality failure or integrity 

failure or both. We must be wary whenever a time lag or loss of control occurs, making 

sure that there is no way to corrupt the check’s results during that interval.
File:
my_fileAction:Change byte 4 to A
FIGURE 3-12 File Access Data Structure
File:
my_fileAction:Change byte 4 to A
File:your_fileAction:Delete fileFIGURE 3-13 Unchecked Change to Work Descriptor
