 Section 9.6  Email Security 
633  What started as a simple case of mail from Janet to Scott can easily involve at least 
six parties: (a) Janet and her computer, (b) Janet’s organization’s SMTP server, (c) 

Janet’s organization’s ISP, (d) the ISP connecting to Scott’s POP server, (e) Scott’s POP 

server, and (f) Scott and his computer. For now, we are most interested in the four 

middle parties: (b), (c), (d), and (e). Any of them can log the fact it was sent or can even 

keep a copy of the message.
Interception of Email
Email is subject to the same inter-

ception risks as other web traffic: 

While in transit on the Internet, 

email is open for any interceptor 

to read.In Chapter 4 we described techniques for encrypting email. In particular, S/MIME 
and PGP are two widely used email protection programs. S/MIME and PGP are avail-

able for popular mail handlers such as Outlook, Mail (from Apple), Thunderbird, and 

others. These products protect email from the client’s workstation through mail agents, 

across the Internet, and to the recipient’s workstation. That protection is considered end-

to-end, meaning from the sender to the recipient. Encrypted email protection is subject 
to the strength of the encryption and the security of the encryption protocol. A virtual private network, described in Chapter 6, can protect data on the connection 
between a client’s workstation and some edge point, usually a router or firewall, at the 

organization to which the client belongs. For a corporate or government employee or a 

university student, communication is protected just up to the edge of the corporate, gov-

ernment, or university network. Thus, with a virtual private network, email is protected 

only from the sender to the sender’s office, not even up to the sender’s mail agent, and 

certainly not to the recipient.Some organizations routinely copy all email sent from their computers. The many 
purposes for these copies include using the email as evidence in legal affairs and moni-

toring the email for inappropriate content.Monitoring EmailIn many countries, companies and government agencies can legitimately monitor their 

employees’ email use. Similarly, schools and libraries can monitor their students’ or 

patrons’ computer use. Network administrators and ISPs can monitor traffic for normal 

business purposes, such as to measure traffic patterns or to detect spam. Organizations 

usually must advise users of this monitoring, but the notice can be a small sidebar in 

a personnel handbook or the fine print of a service contract. Organizations can use the 

monitoring data for any legal purpose, for example, to investigate leaks, to manage 

resources, or to track user behavior. 
Network users should have no expectation of privacy in their email or general com-
puter use.Email is subject to interception and 

modification at many points from 

sender to recipient.
