 Section 9.2  Privacy Principles and Policies 
603  Non-U.S. Privacy PrinciplesDifferent countries have taken different approaches to recognizing and assuring a right 
to privacy, especially with respect to automated systems. 
European Privacy Directive
In 1981, the Council of Europe (an international body of 46 European countries, 
founded in 1949) adopted Convention 108 for the protection of individuals with regard 

to the automatic processing of personal data. As automated systems became more per-

vasive, the European Union (E.U.) in 1995 adopted Directive 95/46/EC on the process-

ing of personal data. Directive 95/46/EC, often called the European Privacy Directive, 

requires that rights of privacy of individuals be maintained and that data about them be
• processed fairly and lawfully.
• collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes and not further pro-
cessed in a way incompatible with those purposes (unless appropriate safe-

guards protect privacy).
• adequate, relevant, and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they 
are collected or further processed.• accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date. Indeed, where data are found to 
be inaccurate or incomplete, every reasonable step must be taken to ensure that 

the data are erased or rectified, with respect to the purposes for which they were 

collected or for which they are further processed.
• kept in a form that permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is 
necessary for the purposes for which the data were collected or for which they 

are further processed.In addition, individuals have the right to access data collected about them, to correct 
inaccurate or incomplete data, and to have those corrections sent to those who have 

received the data. You can see that these rules reflect the Fair Information Practices 

described in the Ware report. In addition, the E.U. privacy directive adds three more 

principles:• Special protection for sensitive data
. There should be greater restrictions on data 
collection and processing that involves “sensitive data.” Under the E.U. data 

protection directive, information is sensitive if it involves “racial or ethnic ori-

gin, political opinions, religious beliefs, philosophical or ethical persuasion . . .  

[or] health or sexual life.”
• Data transfer
. This principle explicitly restricts authorized users of personal 
information from transferring that information to third parties without the per-

mission of the data subject.• Independent oversight
. Entities that process personal data should not only be 
accountable but should also be subject to independent oversight. In the case of 

the government, this principle requires oversight by an office or department that 

is separate and independent from the unit engaged in processing the data. Under 
the data protection directive, the independent overseer must have the authority 
