 Section 4.4  Email Attacks 
269  71 percent of all email, and Symantec [SYM14] reported that the percentage of spam 
to all email traffic held steady between 60 percent and 70 percent throughout 2012 

and 2013. The top countries originating spam are China (22.93 percent), the United States 
(19.05 percent), and South Korea (12.81 percent); all other countries are less than 8 per-

cent each. According to Symantec’s analysis, 69.7 percent of spam messages had a sexual 
or dating content, 17.7 percent pharmaceuticals, and 6.2 percent jobs. Sidebar 4-10 

describes a combined legal and technical approach to eliminating spam.
Why Send Spam?Spam is an annoyance to its recipients, it is usually easy to spot, and sending it takes 
time and effort. Why bother? The 

answer, as with many things, is 

because there is money to be made.
We have already presented the 
statistics on volume of spam. The 

current estimates are that spam con-
stitutes around 70 percent of all email traffic. There must be a profit for there to be that 

much spam in circulation.SIDEBAR 4-10 Cutting Off Spammer Waledac/Storm
On 24 February 2010, Microsoft obtained a court order to cause top-level 
domain manager VeriSign to cease routing 277 .com domains, all belong-

ing to Waledac, formerly known as Storm. At the same time, Microsoft 

disrupted Waledac’s ability to communicate with its network of 60,000 to 

80,000 nodes that disseminated spam.Spammers frequently use many nodes to send spam, so email receiv-
ers cannot build a short list of spam senders to block. These large numbers 

of nodes periodically “call home” to a command-and-control network to 

obtain next instructions of spam to send or other work to perform.
A year earlier, researchers from Microsoft, the University of Mannheim 
in Germany, and the Technical University of Vienna had infiltrated the Wale-

dac command and control network. Later, when the .com domains were 

shut down, the researchers used their position in the network to redirect 

command and update queries to harmless sites, thereby rendering the 

network nodes inoperable. Within hours of taking the offensive action, the 

researchers believed they had cut out 90 percent of the network.
When operational, the Waledac network was estimated to be able 
to generate and send 1.5 billion spam messages per day. This combined 

legal and technical counteroffensive was effective because it eliminated 

direct access through the blocked domain names and indirect access 

through the disabled command-and-control network.
Spammers make enough money to make the work worthwhile.