 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
119  employee in the company, but a task group leader knows all members of the task group, 
the project leader knows all task group leaders, and so on. This hierarchy can become 

the basis for trust throughout the organization.
To see how, suppose two people meet: Ann and Andrew. Andrew says he works for 
the same company as Ann. Ann wants independent verification that he does. She finds 

out that Bill and Betty are two task group leaders for the same project (led by Camilla); 

Ann works for Bill and Andrew for Betty. (The organizational relationships are shown 

in Figure 2-28.) These facts give Ann and Andrew a basis for trusting each other’s iden-

tity. The chain of verification might be something like this:
• Ann asks Bill who Andrew is.
• Bill either asks Betty, if he knows her directly, and if not, he asks Camilla.

• (If asked, Camilla then asks Betty.)

• Betty replies to Camilla or Bill that Andrew works for her.

• (Camilla tells Bill, if she was involved.)

• Bill tells Ann.
If Andrew is in a different task group, it may be necessary to go higher in the organi-
zational tree before a common point is found.We can use a similar process for cryptographic key exchange, as shown in Fig-
ure 2-29. If Andrew and Ann want to communicate, Andrew can give his public key to 

Betty, who passes it to Camilla, then Bill, or directly to Bill, who gives it to Ann. But 

this sequence is not exactly the way it would work in real life. The key would probably 

be accompanied by a note saying it is from Andrew, ranging from a bit of yellow paper 

to a form 947 Statement of Identity. And if a form 947 is used, then Betty would also 

have to attach a form 632a Transmittal of Identity, Camilla would attach another 632a, 

and Bill would attach a final one, as shown in Figure 2-29. This chain of forms 632a 

would say, in essence, “I am Betty and I received this key and the attached statement of 

identity personally from a person I know to be Andrew,” “I am Camilla and I received 

this key and the attached statement of identity and the attached transmittal of identity 

personally from a person I know to be Betty,” and so forth. When Ann receives the key, 

she can review the chain of evidence and conclude with reasonable assurance that the 

key really did come from Andrew. This protocol is a way of obtaining authenticated 

public keys, a binding of a key and a reliable identity.
AnnBillAndrew
BettyCamilla FIGURE 2-28 Trust Relationships
