480 Chapter 6  
Networksnumber of states to account for hundreds of thousands of concurrent connections by 
many users. The logic of the IDS is complicated: Many handshakes may be in progress 

at any time, and the IDS must maintain the state of each of them.
Other protocols have similar stateful representations. As the IDS monitors traffic, 
it will build a similar state representation, matching traffic to the expected nature of 

the interchange. The different protocols with their different states and transition condi-

tions is multiplied by the number of instances (for example, the number of concurrent 

TCP connections being established at any time), making the IDS bookkeeping complex 

indeed.Front End Versus Internal IDSs
An IDS can be placed either at the front end of a monitored subnetwork or on the inside. 
A front-end device
 monitors traffic as it enters the network and thus can inspect all 
packets; it can take as much time as needed to analyze them, and if it finds something 

that it classifies as harmful, it can block the packet before the packet enters the network. 

A front-end intrusion detection system may be visible on the outside, and thus it may 
be a target of attack itself. Skillful attackers know that disabling the defenses of an IDS 

renders the network easier to attack.
On the other hand, a front-end IDS does not see inside the network, so it cannot 
identify any attack originating inside. An 
internal
 device monitors activity within the 
network. If an attacker is sending unremarkable packets to a compromised internal 

machine, instructing that machine to initiate a denial-of-service attack against other 

hosts on that network, a front-end IDS will not notice that attack. Thus, if one com-

puter begins sending threatening packets to another internal computer, for example, an 

echo–chargen stream, the internal IDS would be able to detect that. An internal IDS is 

also more well protected from outside attack. Furthermore, an internal IDS can learn 
typical behavior of internal machines and users so that if, for example, user A suddenly 

started trying to access protected resources after never having done so previously, the 

IDS could record and analyze that anomaly.
Host Based and Network BasedHost-based intrusion detection (called 
HIDS) protects a single host against attack. 
It collects and analyzes data for that one host. The operating system supplies some 

of that data to the IDS, passing along approved and denied requests to access sensi-

tive resources, logs of applications run, times and dates of actions and other security- 

relevant data. The device either analyzes data itself or forwards the data to a separate 

machine for analysis and perhaps correlation with HIDSs on other hosts. The goal of 

a host-based system is to protect one machine and its data. If an intruder disables that 
IDS, however, it can no longer protect its host. Being a process on the target computer 

also exposes the HIDS to the vulnerability of being detected.
A network-based IDS
 or 
NIDS is generally a separate network appliance that moni-
tors traffic on an entire network. It receives data from firewalls, operating systems of the 

connected computers, other sensors such as traffic volume monitors and load balancers, 

and administrator actions on the network. The goal of a NIDS is to protect the entire 
