 Section 2.2  Access Control 
75  In the next section we consider protection mechanisms appropriate for general 
objects of unspecified types, such as the kinds of objects listed above. To make the 

explanations easier to understand, we sometimes use an example of a specific object, 

such as a file. Note, however, that a general mechanism can be used to protect any of the 

types of objects listed.Limited Privilege Limited privilege
 is the act of restraining users and processes so that any harm they can 
do is not catastrophic. A system that prohibits all accesses to anything by anyone cer-

tainly achieves both confidentiality and integrity, but it completely fails availability and 

usefulness. Thus, we seek a midpoint that balances the need for some access against the 

risk of harmful, inappropriate access. Certainly, we do not expect users or processes to 

cause harm. But recognizing that not all users are ethical or even competent and that not 

all processes function as intended, we want to limit exposure from misbehaving users or 

malfunctioning processes. Limited privilege is a way to constrain that exposure.
Limited privilege is a management concept, not a technical control. The process of 
analyzing users and determining the privileges they require is a necessary first step to 

authorizing within those limits. After establishing the limits, we turn to access control 

technology to enforce those limits. In Chapter 3 we again raise the concept of lim-

ited privilege when we describe program design and implementation that ensures secu-

rity. Security design principles first written by Jerome Saltzer and Michael Schroeder 

[SAL75] explain the advantage of limiting the privilege with which users and their 

programs run.Implementing Access Control
Access control is often performed by the operating system. Only the operating sys-
tem can access primitive objects, such as files, to exercise control over them, and the 

operating system creates and terminates the programs that represent users (subjects). 
However, current hardware design does not always support the operating system in 

implementing well-differentiated or fine-grained access control. The operating system 

does not usually see inside files or data objects, for example, so it cannot perform row- 

or element-level access control within a database. Also, the operating system cannot 

easily differentiate among kinds of network traffic. In these cases, the operating system 

defers to a database manager or a network appliance in implementing some access con-

trol aspects. With limited kinds of privileges to allocate, the operating system cannot 

easily both control a database manager and allow the database manager to control users. 

Thus, current hardware design limits some operating system designs.
Reference Monitor
James Anderson and his study committee [AND72] gave name and structure to the 
digital version of a concept that has existed for millennia. To protect their medieval for-

tresses, rulers had one heavily protected gate as the sole means of ingress. Generals sur-

rounded troop emplacements with forts and sentry guards. Bankers kept cash and other 
