 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
115  Properties of Digital Signatures Suppose Sheila sends her bank a message authorizing it to transfer $100 to Rob. Sheila’s 

bank must be able to verify and prove that the message really came from Sheila if she 

should later disavow sending the message. (This property is called 
non-repudiation
.) The bank also wants to know that the message is entirely Sheila’s, that it has not been 

altered along the way. For her part, Sheila wants to be certain that her bank cannot forge 

such messages. (This property is called authenticity.) Both parties want to be sure that 
the message is new, not a reuse of a previous message, and that it has not been altered 

during transmission. Using electronic signals instead of paper complicates this process.But we have ways to make the process work. A 
digital signature
 is a protocol that 
produces the same effect as a real signature: It is a mark that only the sender can make 

but that other people can easily recognize as belonging to the sender. Just like a real 

signature, a digital signature confirms agreement to a message.
A digital signature must meet two primary conditions:
• It must be 
unforgeable
. If person S signs message 
M with signature 
Sig(S,M), no one else can produce the pair [M,Sig(S,M)].• It must be 
authentic. If a person R receives the pair [
M, Sig
(S,M)] purportedly 
from S, R can check that the signature is really from 
S. Only S could have cre-
ated this signature, and the signature is firmly attached to 
M.These two requirements, shown in Figure 2-26, are the major hurdles in computer 
transactions. Two more properties, also drawn from parallels with the paper-based envi-

ronment, are desirable for transactions completed with the aid of digital signatures:• It is 
not alterable. 
After being transmitted, 
M cannot be changed by 
S, R, or an 
interceptor.
• It is 
not reusable. 
A previous message presented again will be instantly detected 
by R.To see how digital signatures work, we first present a mechanism that meets the first 
two requirements. We then add to that solution to satisfy the other requirements. We 

develop digital signatures in pieces: first building a piece to address alterations, then 

describing a way to ensure authenticity, and finally developing a structure to establish 

identity. Eventually all these parts tie together in a conceptually simple framework.
Mark onlythe sendercan makeAuthenticUnforgeable
Mark fixedtodocumentFIGURE 2-26 Digital Signature Requirements