 Section 13.4  Cyber Warfare 
845  that sent confidential information and files back to the attackers. However, a Canadian 
cyber security researcher “was skeptical that Canadian government investigators could 

demonstrate that no information was stolen from the systems.” [AUS11]
RussiaAccording to the New York Times
 (14 Oct 2014), Russian hackers exploited a flaw in the 
Windows operating system to infiltrate the computers of various national governments, 

NATO, and the Ukraine. The attacks seem to have been used to perform espionage 

on government officials. Of particular interest were activities related to the diplomatic 

standoff between Russia and the Ukraine. The spying may have begun as early as 2009 

and continued at least through the September 2014 NATO summit meeting at which 

Russian hostility toward the Ukraine was the central topic.
Are These Examples of Cyber Warfare?
Each of these situations certainly qualifies as cyber harm and probably as cyber war, 
although it is uncertain that they were caused by state agents as opposed to groups of 

individuals; we may never know who sponsored these attacks. The difference is impor-

tant: If an attack is state sponsored, the nation being attacked is justified in mounting 

a diplomatic, economic, technological, and military retaliation against the offending 

country. Such escalation is unwarranted if independent individuals are the culprits, 

however.
In all cases, stopping or diminishing the harm is a first priority. For those reasons, 
technologists and policy-makers have begun to consider a so-called kill switch, a means 

to halt or destroy computer equipment remotely by sending a signal, as described in 

Sidebar 13-5. With your background from reading the rest of this book, you should 

immediately recognize that such a countermeasure is dangerous because an enemy 

could use the same function to halt critical computers, especially if the disruption were 
to accompany a concurrent noncyber attack.
SIDEBAR 13-5 A Kill Switch—Helpful or Harmful?
More and more, the military around the world are concerned about loss of 
control over what might be inside their more and more sophisticated elec-

tronic systems. “Nearly every military system today contains some com-

mercial hardware. It’s a pretty sure bet that the National Security Agency 

doesn’t fabricate its encryption chips in China. But no entity, no matter how 

well funded, can afford to manufacture its own safe version of every chip in 

every piece of equipment.” [ADE08]
One way the military is trying to control this uncertainty about mal-
ware in its systems is to build in a kill switch, something with which the 

military could disable some system or software from afar. For example, after 

the Israeli attack on a suspected nuclear installation in Syria, there was 

much speculation that an electronic “backdoor” had been built into chips 
(continues)