20 Chapter 1  
Introductionstay under the radar to be able to extract profit from the system over time. These differ-
ent objectives lead to different approaches to computer crime: The novice hacker can 

use a crude attack, whereas the professional attacker wants a neat, robust, and undetect-

able method that can deliver rewards for a long time.
Terrorists
The link between computer security and terrorism is quite evident. We see terrorists 
using computers in four ways:
• Computer as target of attack
: Denial-of-service attacks and website defacements 
are popular activities for any political organization because they attract attention 

to the cause and bring undesired negative attention to the object of the attack. An 

example is the massive denial-of-service attack launched against the country of 

Estonia, detailed in Chapter 13.• Computer as method of attack
: Launching offensive attacks requires the use of 
computers. Stuxnet, an example of malicious computer code called a worm, 

is known to attack automated control systems, specifically a model of control 

system manufactured by Siemens. Experts say the code is designed to disable 

machinery used in the control of nuclear reactors in Iran [MAR10]. The per-

sons behind the attack are unknown, but the infection is believed to have spread 

through USB flash drives brought in by engineers maintaining the computer 

controllers. (We examine the Stuxnet worm in more detail in Chapters 6 and 13.)
• Computer as enabler of attack
: Websites, web logs, and email lists are effective, 
fast, and inexpensive ways to allow many people to coordinate. According to the 

Council on Foreign Relations, the terrorists responsible for the November 2008 

attack that killed over 200 people in Mumbai used GPS systems to guide their 

boats, Blackberries for their communication, and Google Earth to plot their routes. 
• Computer as enhancer of attack
: The Internet has proved to be an invaluable 
means for terrorists to spread propaganda and recruit agents. In October 2009 
the FBI arrested Colleen LaRose, also known as JihadJane, after she had spent 

months using email, YouTube, MySpace, and electronic message boards to 

recruit radicals in Europe and South Asia to “wage violent jihad,” according to 

a federal indictment.We cannot accurately measure the degree to which terrorists use computers, because 
terrorists keep secret the nature of their activities and because our definitions and mea-

surement tools are rather weak. Still, incidents like the one described in Sidebar 1-2 

provide evidence that all four of these activities are increasing. 
SIDEBAR 1-2 The Terrorists, Inc., IT Department
In 2001, a reporter for the 
Wall Street Journal 
bought a used computer in Afghanistan. Much to his surprise, he found that the hard drive contained 

what appeared to be files from a senior al Qaeda operative. The reporter, 
