 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
625  For example, the 
Wall Street Journal
’s website, wsj.com, creates a cookie when a 
user first logs in. In subsequent transactions, the cookie acts as an identifier; the user no 

longer needs a password to access the site. Other sites use similar approaches. The 
Wall 
Street Journal
 has a pay wall; if you are not a paid subscriber, you cannot log in. The 
New York Times
 uses a cookie in a different way; because it has a partial pay wall, the 
newspaper’s site uses a cookie to keep track of the number of accesses each month by a 

given user. If the user exceeds ten accesses, the pay wall goes up, and users who do not 

pay must wait until the next month to be able to read more than just headlines.
A portal such as Yahoo! uses cookies to allow users to customize the look of a web 
page. Suppose Sadie wants a bright background for the news headlines, the weather, 

and her email; Norman wants a gentle pastel background for stock market results, news 

about current movies playing in his area, and interesting things that happened on this 

day in history. Yahoo! could keep all this preference information in its database and eas-

ily customize pages it sends to these two users. Thus, preferences for Sadie or Norman 

are stored on their own computers and passed back to Yahoo! to help Yahoo! form and 

deliver a web page according to Sadie’s or Norman’s preferences. 
A site can set as many cookies as it wants, with as many values as it wants. As noted 
above, some sites use cookies to avoid a customer’s having to log in on each visit to 

a site; these cookies contain the user’s ID and password. But a cookie could also con-

tain, for example, a credit card number, the customer name and shipping address, the 

date of the last visit to the site, the number of items purchased or the dollar volume of 

purchases.Sensitive information, such as credit card number or even name and address, should 
be encrypted or otherwise protected in the cookie. It is up to the site to define or deter-

mine what kind of protection it applies to its cookies. The user never knows if or how 

data are protected.The path and domain fields are supposed to protect against one site’s being able to 
access another’s cookies. However, as we show in the next section, one company can 

cooperate with another to share the cookies’ data.
Third-Party Cookies
When you visit a site, its server asks your browser to save a cookie. When you visit that 
site again, your browser passes that cookie back to the site. The general flow is from a 

server to your browser and later back to the place from which the cookie came. A web page 

can also contain cookies for organi-

zations. Because these cookies are 
for organizations other than the web 

page’s owner, they are called 
third-party cookies. A third-party tracking 
firm receives reports from individual 

sites and correlates the data to pro-

vide predictive intelligence.
For instance, DoubleClick (a subsidiary of Google) has agreements with a network 
of websites delivering content: news, sports, food, finance, travel, and so forth. The 
Third-party cookies permit an 

aggregator to link information from 

a user’s visit to websites of different 

organizations.