 Section 9.3  Authentication and Privacy 
613  a magnetic stripe card instead of a key, and the door to your room authenticates you as 
a valid resident for the next three nights. If you think about your day, you will probably 

find dozens of ways some aspect of your identity has been authenticated.
From a privacy standpoint, there may or may not be ways to connect all these dif-
ferent identities. A credit card links to the name and address of the card payer, who 

may be you, your spouse, or anyone else willing to pay your expenses. Your auto toll 

device links to the name and perhaps address of whoever is paying the tolls: you, the 

car’s owner, a rental agency, or an employer. When you make a telephone call, there is 

authentication to the telephone’s account holder, and so forth.
Sometimes we do not want an action associated with an identity. For example, an 
anonymous tip or use of a “whistle blower’s” telephone line is a means of providing 

anonymous information about illegal or inappropriate activity. If you know your boss 

is cheating the company, confronting your boss might not be a good career-enhancing 

move. You probably don’t even want a record to exist that would allow your boss to 

determine who reported the fraud. So you report it anonymously. You might take the 

precaution of calling from a public phone so there would be no way to trace the person 

who called. In that case, you are purposely taking steps to keep a common identifier 

from linking you to the report.Because of data accumulation over time, however, linking may still be possible. As 
you leave your office to go to a public phone, there is a record of the badge you swiped 

at the door. A surveillance camera shows you standing at the public phone. The cof-

fee shop’s records include a timestamp showing when you bought your coffee (using 

your customer loyalty card) before returning to your office. The time of these details 

matches the time of the anonymous telephone tip. In the abstract these data items do 

not stand out from millions of others. But someone probing the few minutes around the 

time of the tip can construct those links. The linking could be done by hand. But ever-

improving technology permits more parallels like these to be drawn by computers from 

seemingly unrelated and uninteresting data points.Therefore, to preserve our privacy we may thwart attempts to link records. A friend 
gives a fictitious name when signing up for customer loyalty cards at stores. Another 

friend makes dinner reservations under a pseudonym. In a neighborhood store, the 

clerks always ask you for your telephone number when you buy something, even if 
 you pay cash. You can gladly give them one; it just doesn’t happen to be your real 

number. Numerous sites (see http://www.dmoz.org/Computers/Internet/E-mail/Spam/

Preventing/Temporary_Addresses/) offer temporary email addresses for one-time use, 

for a limited period of validity (up to a few months), or until the address is deleted.
Anonymized Records
Sometimes, individual data elements are not sensitive, but the linkages among them 
are. For instance, some person is named Erin, some person has the medical condition 

diabetes; neither of those facts is sensitive. The linkage that Erin has diabetes becomes 

sensitive.
Medical researchers want to study populations to determine incidence of diseases, 
common factors, trends, and patterns. To preserve privacy, researchers often deal with 

anonymized records: records from which identifying information has been removed. 
