112 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
lack of binding means that changing one value affects the integrity of the file but that 
one change can easily go undetected.What we would like to do is somehow put a seal or shield around the file so that 
we can detect when the seal has been broken and thus know that something has been 

changed. This notion is similar to the use of wax seals on letters in medieval days; if the 

wax was broken, the recipient would know that someone had broken the seal and read 

the message inside. In the same way, cryptography can be used to 
seal a file, encasing 
it so that any change becomes apparent. One technique for providing the seal is to com-

pute a function, sometimes called a hash or checksum or message digest of the file.
The code between Sam and Theresa is a hash code. Hash codes are often used in 
communications where transmission errors might affect the integrity of the transmit-

ted data. In those cases the code value is transmitted with the data. Whether the data 

or the code value was marred, the receiver detects some problem and simply requests a 

retransmission of the data block.Such a protocol is adequate in cases of unintentional errors but is not intended to 
deal with a dedicated adversary. If Fagin knows the error detection function algorithm, 

then he can change content and fix the detection value to match. Thus, when a mali-

cious adversary might be involved, secure communication requires a stronger form of 

message digest.One-Way Hash Functions
As a first step in defeating Fagin, we have to prevent him from working backward from 
the digest value to see what possible inputs could have led to that result. For instance, 

some encryptions depend on a function that is easy to understand but difficult to com-

pute. For a simple example, consider the cube function, 
y  x3. Computing x3 by hand, with pencil and paper, or with a calculator is not hard. But the inverse function, 
y3, is much more difficult to compute. And the function 
y  x2 has no inverse function since 
there are two possibilities for 
y2:x and
x. Functions like these, which are much 
easier to compute than their inverses, are called 
one-way functions.File Change DetectionA one-way function can be useful in creating a change detection algorithm. The func-
tion must depend on all bits of the file being sealed, so any change to even a single bit 

will alter the checksum result. The checksum value is stored with the file. Then, each 

time someone accesses or uses the file, the system recomputes the checksum. If the 

computed checksum matches the stored value, the file is likely to be intact.
The one-way property guards against malicious modification: An attacker cannot 
“undo” the function to see what the original file was, so there is no simple way to find a 

set of changes that produce the same function value. (Otherwise, the attacker could find 

undetectable modifications that also have malicious impact.)
Tripwire [KIM98] is a utility program that performs integrity checking on files. With 
Tripwire a system administrator computes a hash of each file and stores these hash 

values somewhere secure, typically offline. Later the administrator reruns Tripwire and 

compares the new hash values with the earlier ones.
