 Exercises 549  Security enhancement to Hadoop is definitely a welcome step forward, but as with 
too many security issues we have described in this book, solutions are limited if security 

is added after the fact, is sacrificed to performance, and lacks a broad design and analy-

sis before the security approach is codified.
7.6 CONCLUSION
In this chapter we have explored protection of data. Our interests have touched on issues 

of privacy, which we explore in greater depth in Chapter 9. Also, we have previewed 

some security issues of cloud computing, a new name for widely distributed data stor-

age and processing. We address security for the cloud in Chapter 8.
Protecting data is especially tricky because users can collect and pool data outside 
the computing system. Thus, although we might set up a solid access control approach 

and complete tracking of what data each individual did access, actions outside the sys-

tem are completely beyond our control.
EXERCISES1. (a) In an environment in which several users share access to a single database, 
can one user ever block another’s access for an unlimited period of time? (This 

situation is called indefinite postponement.) (b) Describe a scenario in which two 

users could cause the indefinite postponement of each other. (c) Describe a sce-

nario in which a single user could cause the indefinite postponement of all users.
2. Using the two-step commit presented in the beginning of this chapter, describe 
how to avoid assigning one seat to two people, as in the airline example. That 

is, list precisely which steps the database manager should follow in assigning 

passengers to seats.3. Suppose a database manager were to allow nesting of one transaction inside 
another. That is, after having updated part of one record, the DBMS would allow 

you to select another record, update it, and then perform further updates on the 
first record. What effect would nesting have on the integrity of a database? Sug-

gest a mechanism by which nesting could be allowed.
4. Can a database contain two identical records without a negative effect on the 
integrity of the database? Why or why not?
5. Some operating systems perform buffered I/O. In this scheme, an output request 
is accepted from a user and the user is informed of the normal I/O completion. 
However, the actual physical write operation is performed later, at a time con-

venient to the operating system. Discuss the effect of buffered I/O on integrity 

in a DBMS.6. A database transaction implements the command “set STATUS to ‘CUR-
RENT’ in all records where BALANCE-OWED 
 0.”
 (a) Describe how that 
transaction would be performed with the two-step commit described in this 

chapter. (b) Suppose the relations from which that command was formed are 
