 Section 9.10  Exercises 
645  activity including researchers at North Carolina State University and Carnegie Mellon 
University.
Bob Gellman is a well-respected consultant on privacy issues. His website,  
www.bobgellman.com, contains a large number of excellent privacy resources, includ-

ing comparisons of privacy protections across different countries.
IEEE Security & Privacy magazine has at least one article about privacy in every 
issue, in its Privacy Interests department. There, leading privacy practitioners, research-

ers, and policy-makers discuss what is new on the privacy horizon. In addition, Susan 

Landau wrote two articles about a series of U.S. national security leaks; they can be 

found in the July/August 2013 issue and online on the magazine’s website. The July/

August 2014 issue was a special issue devoted to exploring how intelligence agencies 

use technology to perform surveillance, and what that means for our privacy. Landau’s 

books [DIF07, LAN11] on surveillance explore in depth the effects of government sur-

veillance on privacy and security.
9.9 CONCLUSION
In this chapter on privacy we have examined how security, privacy, technology, and 

information interact. On one side are new capabilities made available only because of 

the power and capacity of computers. On the other side are human rights and expecta-

tions of privacy. As we have shown, these two sides do not have to be in conflict: Pri-

vacy and technology are not necessarily antithetical.
The first step in establishing privacy is the same as the other areas of computer secu-
rity: We must first define a privacy 
policy that documents what privacy we require. 
The early work by Ware’s committee laid out very important fundamental principles of 

information privacy.
Next, we looked at the interplay among individuals, identities, attributes, and authen-
tication, similar to how we studied subjects, objects, and access rights in Chapter 5. 

Specific examples of privacy in email and the web showed how privacy is and is not 

currently upheld in computerized information handling. Finally, emerging topics like 

computerized voting, Internet telephony, RFIDs and the cloud show us that in rapidly 

changing technology, we need to ensure that privacy interests are upheld.
Privacy rights have both a political and technological dimension. The technology 
is perhaps the easier part: Once we decide politically what privacy rights we want to 

retain, we can usually make the technology conform. But our study of security has 

shown us that security—or privacy—is unlikely to happen unless we demand it, plan for 

it, and design it into our products and processes.9.10 EXERCISES
1. You have been asked to participate in developing the requirements for an RFID-based identi-
fication card for students, faculty, and affiliates at a university. First, list five to ten different 

uses of the card. Second, from that list of uses, detail what data the card needs to broadcast 
to receivers that will accomplish those uses. Third, identify uses that could be made of that 
