678 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsNeither of these two approaches is “right” nor is one necessarily better than the 
other. In Table 10-6 we summarize the advantages and disadvantages of each.
The Delphi approach
 is a subjective probability technique originally devised by 
RAND [HAL67] to deal with public policy decisions. It assumes experts can make 

informed estimates based on their experience; the method brings a group of experts to 

consensus. The first step in using Delphi is to provide each of several experts with infor-

mation describing the situation surrounding the event under consideration. For example, 

the experts may be told about the software and hardware architecture, conditions of use, 

and expertise of users. Then, each expert individually estimates the likelihood of the 

event. The estimates are collected, reproduced, and distributed to all experts. The indi-

vidual estimates are listed anonymously, and the experts are usually given some statisti-

cal information, such as mean or median. The experts are then asked whether they wish 

to modify their individual estimates in light of values their colleagues have supplied. If 

the revised values are reasonably consistent, the process ends with the group’s reaching 

consensus. If the values are inconsistent, additional rounds of revision may occur until 

consensus is reached.Step 4: Compute Expected LossBy this time, we have gained an understanding of the assets we value, their possible vul-
nerabilities, and the likelihood that the vulnerabilities will be exploited. Next, we must 

determine the likely loss if the exploitation does indeed occur. As with likelihood of 

occurrence, this value is difficult to determine. Some costs, such as the cost to replace a 

hardware item, are easy to obtain. The cost to replace a piece of software can be approx-

imated reasonably well from the initial cost to buy it (or specify, design, and write it). 

However, we must take care to include hidden costs in our calculations. For instance, 
TABLE 10-5 
Ratings of Likelihood
FrequencyRating
More than once a day10
Once a day9

Once every three days8

Once a week7

Once in two weeks6

Once a month5

Once every four months4

Once a year3

Once every three years2

Less than once in three years1
