 Section 8.3  Cloud Security Tools and Techniques 
561  Data Protection in the Cloud
Using a public cloud service—be it SaaS, PaaS, or IaaS—will likely mean sending 
private data to the service provider via the Internet and storing private data on the cloud 

provider’s servers. While different cloud service models accord you different degrees of 

control over security, it is your responsibility to choose cloud offerings that ensure, or 

allow you to ensure, that your data—as well as those of your partners and customers—

are adequately protected from modification and disclosure.
Protecting data in-transit is relatively straightforward, building on technologies you 
learned about in Chapter 6. If the cloud service is a SaaS or PaaS, communication will 

likely take place over HTTP, so you will want to choose a provider that requires TLS by 

default and configures it well (that is, requires cipher suites that are not known to have 

practical vulnerabilities and that uses a trustworthy CA). While well-configured TLS 

will be important for IaaS, it is unlikely to be your only form of encrypted communica-

tion. For services that communicate outside a protected enclave but do not support TLS, 

SSH, and VPNs (for example, IPsec) are the standard protection mechanisms. As with 

TLS, configuration, particularly your choice of cipher suite, can mean the difference 

between strong and weak security. Like TLS, SSH and many VPN products also support 

certificates, which, in addition to being a strong form of “something you have” authen-

tication, can offer the added benefit of 
mutual authentication, allowing the client and 
server to authenticate each other.
Cloud StorageWhile it is natural to mentally associate cloud storage with storage as a service (STaaS) 
offerings such as Dropbox, the truth is that just about every cloud provider stores cus-

tomer data. Storage is integral to SaaS offerings that allow customers to upload, share, 

and sell photos, for instance, as well as to SaaS office suites that let customers create, 

edit, and share documents. PaaS offerings generally include cloud-hosted databases for 

storing application data. IaaS providers store customer VMs, network configuration 

information, and any other data customers might upload.
When considering a cloud solution from a data storage perspective, you should think 
about a number of security-related issues:• How sensitive is the data I’ll be storing? Data sensitivity will be the key factor 
in determining the encryption and access control capabilities you will require. 
If you intend to create a publicly available document that anyone can edit, you 

can use a service that offers no encryption or access control. If you are backing 

up files that contain private personal information, encryption and access control 

are critical concerns.• Will I need to share the data with anyone and, if so, what kinds of access con-
trols will I require?
 Access control options vary greatly across cloud storage 
offerings. Some offerings allow data to be read by anyone who has a link to 

it, while others offer an array of options for sharing with other users, and still 

others allow only the user who created the data to access it. For storage of sen-

sitive information, such as passwords and account numbers, sharing is rarely a 
