 Section 1.3  Harm 
27  the Internet. Mass-market systems (such as the Microsoft or Apple or Unix operating 
systems) are readily available for purchase, as are common software products, such as 

word processors or database management systems, so potential attackers can even get 

hardware and software on which to experiment and perfect an attack. Some manufac-

turers release detailed specifications on how the system was designed or how it oper-

ates, as guides for users and integrators who want to implement other complementary 

products. Various attack tools—scripts, model programs, and tools to test for weak-

nesses—are available from hackers’ sites on the Internet, to the degree that many attacks 

require only the attacker’s ability to download and run a program. The term 
script kid-die describes someone who downloads a complete attack code package and needs only 
to enter a few details to identify the target and let the script perform the attack. Often, 

only time and inclination limit an attacker.
OpportunityOpportunity is the time and access to execute an attack. You hear that a fabulous apart-
ment has just become available, so you rush to the rental agent, only to find someone 

else rented it five minutes earlier. You missed your opportunity.
Many computer systems present ample opportunity for attack. Systems available to 
the public are, by definition, accessible; often their owners take special care to make 

them fully available so that if one hardware component fails, the owner has spares 

instantly ready to be pressed into service. Other people are oblivious to the need to 

protect their computers, so unattended laptops and unsecured network connections give 

ample opportunity for attack. Some systems have private or undocumented entry points 

for administration or maintenance, but attackers can also find and use those entry points 

to attack the systems.MotiveFinally, an attacker must have a 
motive
 or reason to want to attack. You probably have 
ample opportunity and ability to throw a rock through your neighbor’s window, but you 

do not. Why not? Because you have no reason to want to harm your neighbor: You lack 

motive.
We have already described some of the motives for computer crime: money, fame, 
self-esteem, politics, terror. It is often difficult to determine motive for an attack. Some 

places are “attractive targets,” meaning they are very appealing to attackers. Popular 

targets include law enforcement and defense department computers, perhaps because 

they are presumed to be well protected against attack (so they present a challenge 

and a successful attack shows the 

attacker’s prowess). Other systems 

are attacked because they are easy 

to attack. And some systems are 

attacked at random simply because 

they are there.
Method, opportunity, and motive  

are all necessary for an attack to 

succeed; deny any of these and the 
attack will fail.