 Section 2.1  Authentication 
45  Two friends we know told us their passwords as we helped them administer their 
systems, and their passwords would both have been among the first we would have 

guessed. But, you say, these are amateurs unaware of the security risk of a weak pass-

word. At a recent meeting, a security expert related this experience: He thought he had 

chosen a solid password, so he invited a class of students to ask him questions and offer 

guesses as to his password. He was amazed that they asked only a few questions before 

they had deduced the password. And this was a security expert!
The conclusion we draw from these incidents is that people choose weak and easily 
guessed passwords more frequently than some might expect. Clearly, people find some-

thing in the password process that is difficult or unpleasant: Either people are unable 

to choose good passwords, perhaps because of the pressure of the situation, or they 

fear they will forget solid passwords. In either case, passwords are not always good 

authenticators.Guessing Probable Passwords Think of a word. Is the word you thought of long? Is it uncommon? Is it hard to spell or 

to pronounce? The answer to all three of these questions is probably no.
Penetrators searching for passwords realize these very human characteristics and use 
them to their advantage. Therefore, penetrators try techniques that are likely to lead to 

rapid success. If people prefer short passwords to long ones, the penetrator will plan to 

try all passwords but to try them in order by length. There are only 26
1  26
2  26
3  18,278 (not case sensitive) passwords of length 3 or less. Testing that many passwords 

would be difficult but possible for a human, but repetitive password testing is an easy 

computer application. At an assumed rate of one password per millisecond, all of these 

passwords can be checked in 18.278 seconds, hardly a challenge with a computer. Even 

expanding the tries to 4 or 5 characters raises the count only to 475 seconds (about 

8 minutes) or 12,356 seconds (about 3.5 hours), respectively.
This analysis assumes that people choose passwords such as vxlag and msms as 
often as they pick enter and beer. However, people tend to choose names or words they 

can remember. Many computing systems have spelling checkers that can be used to 

check for spelling errors and typographic mistakes in documents. These spelling check-

ers sometimes carry online dictionaries of the most common English words. One con-

tains a dictionary of 80,000 words. Trying all of these words as passwords takes only 80 

seconds at the unrealistically generous estimate of one guess per millisecond.Nobody knows what the most popular password is, although some conjecture it 
is “password.” Other common ones are user, abc123, aaaaaa (or aaaaa or aaaaaaa), 

123456, and asdfg or qwerty (the arrangement of keys on a keyboard). Lists of com-

mon passwords are easy to find (for example, http://blog.jimmyr.com/Password_ 

analysis_of_databases_that_were_hacked_28_2009.php). See also http://threatpost.

com/password-is-no-longer-the-worst-password/103746 for a list of the most common 

passwords, obtained in a data breach from Adobe, Inc. From these examples you can 

tell that people often use anything 

simple that comes to mind as a pass-

word, so human attackers might 

succeed by trying a few popular 

passwords.
Common passwords—such as 

qwerty, password, 123456—are used 

astonishingly often.