 Section 7.2  Security Requirements of Databases 
507  increase the computing system’s size or complexity. What is surprising, though, is that 
security interests may also reduce the system’s ability to provide data to users by limit-

ing certain queries that would otherwise seem innocuous.
7.2 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS OF DATABASES
The basic security requirements of database systems are not unlike those of other com-

puting systems we have studied. The basic problems—access control, exclusion of spu-

rious data, authentication of users, and reliability—have appeared in many contexts so 

far in this book. Following is a list of requirements for database security.
• Physical database integrity. 
The data of a database are immune from physical problems, such as power failures, and someone can reconstruct the database if it 

is destroyed through a catastrophe.
• Logical database integrity. 
The structure of the database is preserved. With 
logical integrity of a database, a modification to the value of one field does not 

affect other fields, for example.
• Element integrity. 
The data contained in each element are accurate.• Auditability. 
It is possible to track who or what has accessed (or modified) the 
elements in the database.• Access control. 
A user is allowed to access only authorized data, and different 
users can be restricted to different modes of access (such as read or write).
• User authentication. Every user is positively identified, both for the audit trail 
and for permission to access certain data.• Availability. 
Users can access the database in general and all the data for which they are authorized.
We briefly examine each of these requirements.
Integrity of the DatabaseIf a database is to serve as a central repository of data, users must be able to trust the 
accuracy of the data values. This condition implies that the database administrator must 

be assured that updates are performed only by authorized individuals. It also implies 

that the data must be protected from corruption, either by an outside illegal program 

action or by an outside force such as fire or a power failure. Two situations can affect 

the integrity of a database: when the whole database is damaged (as happens, for exam-

ple, if its storage medium is damaged) or when individual data items are unreadable.
Integrity of the database as a whole is the responsibility of the DBMS, the operat-
ing system, and the (human) computing system manager. From the perspective of the 

operating system and the computing system manager, databases and DBMSs are files 

and programs, respectively. Therefore, one way of protecting the database as a whole 

is to regularly back up all files on the system. These periodic backups can be adequate 

controls against catastrophic failure.
