 Section 5.1  Security in Operating Systems 
293  record, leading to an infinite chain of records from just the first access. But even if we 
put aside the problem of auditing the audit, little purpose is served by recording every 

time a memory location is changed or a file directory is searched. Furthermore, the audit 

trail is useful only if it is analyzed. Too much data impedes timely and critical analysis.
Virtualization
Another important operating system security technique is virtualization, providing the 
appearance of one set of resources by using different resources. If you present a plate 

of cookies to a group of children, the cookies will likely all disappear. If you hide the 

cookies and put them out a few at a time you limit the children’s access. Operating sys-

tems can do the same thing.Virtual Machine 
Suppose one set of users, call it the A set, is to be allowed to access only A data, and 

different users, the B set, can access only B data. We can implement this separation 

easily and reliably with two unconnected machines. But for performance, economic, or 

efficiency reasons, that approach may not be desirable. If the A and B sets overlap, strict 

separation is impossible.Another approach is virtualization, in which the operating system presents each 
user with just the resources that class of user should see. To an A user, the machine, 

called a virtual machine, contains only the A resources. It could seem to the A user 
as if there is a disk drive, for example, with only the A data. The A user is unable to 

get to—or even know of the exis-

tence of—B resources, because the 

A user has no way to formulate a 

command that would expose those 

resources, just as if they were on a 

separate machine.Virtualization has advantages other than for security. With virtual machines, an oper-
ating system can simulate the effect of one device by using another. So, for example, if 

an installation decides to replace local disk devices with cloud-based storage, neither 

the users nor their programs need make any change; the operating system virtualizes 

the disk drives by covertly modifying each disk access command so the new commands 

retrieve and pass along the right data. You execute the command meaning “give me the 

next byte in this file.” But the operating system has to determine where the file is stored 

physically on a disk and convert the command to read from sector 
s block 
b byte 
y1. Unless byte y was the end of a block, in which case the next byte may come from a 
completely different disk location. Or the command might convert to cloud space 
c file 
f byte 
z. You are oblivious to such transformations because the operating system shields 
you from such detail.Hypervisor A hypervisor
, or virtual machine monitor, is the software that implements a virtual 
machine. It receives all user access requests, directly passes along those that apply to 
Virtualization: presenting a user the 

appearance of a system with only the 
resources the user is entitled to use
