 Section 9.4  Data Mining 
617  Government Data Mining
Especially troubling to some people is the prospect of government data mining. We 
believe we can stop excesses and intrusive behavior of private companies by using the 

courts, unwanted publicity, or other forms of pressure. It is much more difficult to stop 

the government from acting. People fear governments or rulers who have taken retribution 

against citizens deemed to be enemies, and even presumably responsible democracies can 

make mistakes in handling data. Much government data collection and analysis occurs 

without publicity; some programs are just not announced and others are intentionally kept 

secret. Thus, citizens are uncomfortable with what unchecked government can do. And 

because data mining is neither per-

fect nor exact, correcting erroneous 

data held by the government and the 

erroneous conclusions drawn from 

data mining is next to impossible.
Privacy-Preserving Data Mining
Because data mining can threaten privacy, researchers have looked into ways to protect 

privacy during data-mining operations. A naïve and ineffective approach is trying to 

remove all identifying information from databases being mined. Sometimes, however, 

the identifying information is necessary for the mining and may even be the goal of data 

mining. More importantly, identification may be possible even when the overt identify-

ing information is removed from a database.
Data mining usually employs two approaches—correlation and aggregation. We 
examine techniques to preserve privacy with each of those approaches.
Privacy for Correlation
Correlation involves joining databases on common fields. As with protecting the sensi-
tive link between Erin and diabetes, privacy preservation for correlation attempts to 

control that linkage.John Vaidya and Chris Clifton [VAI04] discuss data perturbation as a way to pre-
vent privacy-endangering correlation. As a simplistic example, assume two databases 

contain only three records, as shown in Table 9-1. The ID field linking these databases 

makes it easy to see that Erin has diabetes.
Data mining is neither perfect nor 
exact, so correcting erroneous data and 

conclusions is next to impossible.TABLE 9-1 
Example for Data PerturbationNameID
Erin1
Aarti2

Geoff3
IDCondition
1diabetes
2none

3measles
