338 Chapter 5  
Operating Systemsis to be loaded (ordinarily at system boot time). TDL-4 changes a system configuration 
value LoadIntegrityCheckPolicy so that the unsigned rootkit is loaded without checking 

[FIS10a]. TDL-4 infects the master boot record (MBR) and replaces the kernel debug-

ger (kdcom.dll) that would ordinarily be available to debug kernel-level activity. The 

replaced debugger returns only safe values (meaning those that do not reveal TDL-4), 

making it difficult for analysts to investigate the form and function of this rootkit.
The sophistication of the TDSS family is amazing, as is its ability to adapt to system 
changes such as code integrity checking. The authors have invested a great amount of 

time in maintaining and extending this rootkit family, and they are likely to continue to 

do so to preserve the value of their investment.
Other RootkitsNot every rootkit is malicious. Suppose you are a manager of a company that handles very 

sensitive information: It may be intellectual property, in the form of the design and imple-

mentation of new programs, or perhaps it is the medical records of some high-profile 

patients who would not want their medical conditions to appear on the front page of a 

newspaper. Your employees need this information internally for ordinary business func-

tions, but there is almost no reason such information should ever leave your company.
Because the value of this information is so high, you want to be sure nothing sensitive 
is included in email sent by your employees or by a malicious process acting under the 

name of an employee. Several products, with names like eBlaster and Spector, are rootkits 

that parents can install on children’s computers, to monitor the nature of email, messag-

ing, and web searches. As rootkits, these products are invisible to the children and, even if 

detected, the products are difficult to disable or remove. Managers worried about illicit or 

unintentional exfiltration of sensitive information could use similar products.
Law enforcement authorities also install rootkits on machines of suspects so that 
agents can trace and even control what users of the affected machines do, but the sus-

pects remain oblivious.
Thus, not every rootkit is malicious. In fact, security tools, such as antivirus soft-
ware and intrusion detection and prevention systems, sometimes operate in a stealthy 

and hard-to-disable manner, just like rootkits. However, because this is a book about 

computer security, we now return to rootkits of a malicious nature as we examine sys-

tem vulnerabilities that permit introduction of rootkits. The two vulnerabilities that 

contribute to installation of rootkits are that the operating system is complex and not 

transparent.Having described the threat of a rootkit to an operating system, we now turn 
to another source of threats involving operating systems: mobile devices such as 

smartphones.5.4 CONCLUSION
In this chapter we have surveyed the field of operating systems to develop several 

important security concepts. Operating systems are the first place we have seen detailed 

analysis of access control, and the first use of the reference monitor.
