 Section 2.3  Cryptography 
107  Revised Key Exchange Protocol
Remember that we began this discussion with a man-in-the-middle attack against a 
simple key exchange protocol. The faulty protocol was 
1. A says: B, please send me your public key.
2. B replies: Here, A; this is my public key.
3. A responds: Thanks. I have generated a symmetric key for us to use for this inter-
change. I am sending you the symmetric key encrypted under your public key.
At step 2 the intruder intercepts B’s public key and passes along the intruder’s. The 
intruder can be foiled if A and B exchange half a key at a time. Half a key is useless to 

the intruder because it is not enough to encrypt or decrypt anything. Knowing half the 

key does not materially improve the intruder’s ability to break encryptions in the future.
Rivest and Shamir [RIV84] have devised a solid protocol as follows.
1. Amy sends her public key to Bill.
2. Bill sends his public key to Amy.
SIDEBAR 2-15 Aspidistra, a WW II Man in the Middle
During World War II Britain used a man-in-the-middle attack to delude Ger-
man pilots and civilians. Aspidistra, the name of a common houseplant also 
known as cast-iron plant for its seeming ability to live forever, was also the 

name given to a giant radio transmitter the British War Office bought from 

RCA in 1942. The transmitter broadcast at 500 kW of power, ten times the 

power allowed to any U.S. station at the time, which meant Aspidistra was 
able to transmit signals from Britain into Germany.
Part of the operation of Aspidistra was to delude German pilots by 
broadcasting spurious directions (land, go here, turn around). Although the 

pilots also received valid flight instructions from their own controllers, this 

additional chatter confused them and could result in unnecessary flight and 

lost time. This part of the attack was only an impersonation attack.
Certain German radio stations in target areas were turned off to pre-
vent their being beacons by which Allied aircraft could home in on the 

signal; bombers would follow the signal and destroy the antenna and its 

nearby transmitter if the stations broadcast continually. When a station was 

turned off, the British immediately went on the air using Aspidistra on the 

same frequency as the station the Germans just shut down. They copied 

and rebroadcast a program from another German station, but they inter-

spersed propaganda messages that could demoralize German citizens 

and weaken support for the war effort.
The Germans tried to counter the phony broadcasts by advising lis-
teners that the enemy was transmitting and advising the audience to listen 
for the official German broadcast announcement—which, of course, the 

British duly copied and broadcast themselves. (More details and pictures 

are at http://www.qsl.net/g0crw/Special%20Events/Aspidistra2.htm, and 

http://bobrowen.com/nymas/radioproppaper.pdf.)
