180 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingTransmission and Propagation
A printed copy of code does nothing and threatens no one. Even executable code sitting 
on a disk does nothing. What triggers code to start? For malware to do its malicious 

work and spread itself, it must be executed to be activated. Fortunately for malware 

writers but unfortunately for the rest of us, there are many ways to ensure that programs 

will be executed on a running computer.
Setup and Installer Program Transmission 
Recall the SETUP program that you run to load and install a new program on your com-

puter. It may call dozens or hundreds of other programs, some on the distribution medium, 

some already residing on the computer, some in memory. If any one of these programs 

contains a virus, the virus code could be activated. Let us see how. Suppose the virus 

code were in a program on the distribution medium, such as a CD, or downloaded in the 

installation package; when executed, the virus could install itself on a permanent storage 

medium (typically, a hard disk) and also in any and all executing programs in memory. 

Human intervention is necessary to start the process; a human being puts the virus on the 

distribution medium, and perhaps another person initiates the execution of the program 

to which the virus is attached. (Execution can occur without human intervention, though, 

such as when execution is triggered by a date or the passage of a certain amount of time.) 

After that, no human intervention is needed; the virus can spread by itself.
Attached File A more common means of virus activation is in a file attached to an email message 

or embedded in a file. In this attack, the virus writer tries to convince the victim (the 

recipient of the message or file) to open the object. Once the viral object is opened (and 

thereby executed), the activated virus can do its work. Some modern email handlers, 

in a drive to “help” the receiver (victim), automatically open attachments as soon as 

the receiver opens the body of the email message. The virus can be executable code 

embedded in an executable attachment, but other types of files are equally dangerous. 

For example, objects such as graphics or photo images can contain code to be executed 

by an editor, so they can be transmission agents for viruses. In general, forcing users to 

open files on their own rather than having an application do it automatically is a best 

practice; programs should not perform potentially security-relevant actions without a 

user’s consent. However, ease-of-use often trumps security, so programs such as brows-

ers, email handlers, and viewers often “helpfully” open files without first asking the user.
Document Viruses 
A virus type that used to be quite popular is what we call the document virus, which is 
implemented within a formatted document, such as a written document, a database, a 
slide presentation, a picture, or a spreadsheet. These documents are highly structured 

files that contain both data (words or numbers) and commands (such as formulas, 

formatting controls, links). The commands are part of a rich programming language, 

including macros, variables and procedures, file accesses, and even system calls. The 

writer of a document virus uses any of the features of the programming language to 

perform malicious actions.