386 Chapter 6  
NetworksChanging the NIC’s MAC address not only undermines MAC-based authentication 
on an access point, it can lead to a 

larger attack called 
MAC spoofing
, in which one device impersonates 

another, thereby assuming another 

device’s communication session.
Stealing the AssociationUnfortunately, if a rogue process has intercepted an SSID and spoofed a MAC address, 
the two best points of access control have been lost. Looked at from the other perspec-

tive, however, you might assume that a device that has successfully passed the SSID and 

authentication tests will now associate with the identified access point. Wrong again!
Even though frames all contain the SSID of the intended recipient access point, noth-
ing prevents any access point from accepting and replying to any frame. In fact, some 

access point hardware and firmware is known to be flawed and will accept any asso-

ciation it can receive [AND04a]. These are known as 
promiscuous access points
. For 
an example of vulnerable associations, see Sidebar 6-12. Think of them next time you 

consider connecting to free WiFi service hot spots in a bar or an airport.
Preferred Associations
Common WiFi situations involve residents connecting to their home networks, students 
connecting to school networks, business workers connecting to corporate networks, and 

patrons connecting to coffee shop or bookstore networks. A typical user might con-

nect frequently to a handful of networks, with the occasional one-time connection to a  

hotel or an airport network when traveling, or a museum during a day’s visit. To simplify 
An operating system can send any 
address as if it were the MAC address  

of a NIC.SIDEBAR 6-12 Keeping the Sheep from the Foxes
Firefox is a popular browser, in part because users have written and con-
tributed add-ons, an astonishing two billion at last count, to do a wide range 
of things from managing appointments and displaying the weather forecast 

to downloading video and translating text from one language to another.
A recent contribution, Firesheep, lets a user join into another user’s 
established WiFi connection with the click of a mouse. To use Firesheep, 

all you need to do is join an open public network, such as the free WiFi net-

work at your local coffee spot. While you are connected, Firesheep silently 

scans all the rest of the traffic on the network, selecting messages that 

show an established association with some service, such as web-based 

email or a social networking site. As we describe in Chapter 4, many of 

these sites manage their active associations by using cookies that are sent 

from the site to the user’s browser and back to the site again. The problem 

is that often those cookies are communicated unencrypted, completely in 

the clear, meaning that anyone who intercepts and transmits the cookie 

joins the session of the original user.
