 Section 12.6  Quantum Cryptography 
807  algorithm, NIST is proposing the removal of the Dual Elliptic Curve Deterministic Ran-
dom Bit Generator (Dual_EC_DRBG).” NIST has since rewritten its random number 

generator recommendations to remove Dual-EC.
Compounding the severity of this issue, Joseph Menn reports in 
Reuters
 that NSA 
paid RSA $10 million ostensibly so that Dual-EC would be the default random number 

generator distributed in RSA’s cryptographic toolkit BSAFE. RSA has since removed 

Dual-EC from the BSAFE library.
We describe this issue to show how effectively an attacker can plan and implement an 
attack. The subtlety of the flaw apparently inserted reinforces what we have said other 

places in this book: developing cryptography is not something for amateurs, because 

even the professionals have trouble seeing possible flaws.
12.6 QUANTUM CRYPTOGRAPHY
We turn now to an emerging form of cryptography based on advances in physics. Some 

analysts say this cryptography has the potential to revolutionize both encryption and 

cryptanalysis, although others are skeptical it will become practical soon.
We have seen how researchers have relied on aspects of mathematics to generate 
hard problems and to devise algorithms. In this section, we look at an alternative view 

of how cryptography may be done in the future. The approach we describe is not now 

on the market, nor is it likely to be so in the next few years. But it illustrates the need for 

creative thinking in inventing new encryption techniques. Although the science behind 

this approach is difficult, the approach itself is really quite simple.
The novel approach, quantum cryptography, is in a way a variant of the idea behind 
a one-time pad. Remember from earlier in this chapter that the one-time pad is the 

only provably unbreakable encryption scheme. The one-time pad requires two copies 

of a long string of unpredictable numbers, one copy each for the sender and receiver. 

The sender combines a number with a unit of plaintext to produce the ciphertext. If the 

numbers are truly unpredictable (that is, they have absolutely no discernible pattern), 
the attacker cannot separate the numbers from the ciphertext.
The difficulty with this approach is that there are few sources of sharable strings of 
random numbers. There are many natural phenomena that could yield a string of unpre-

dictable numbers, but then we face the problem of communicating that string to the 

receiver in such a way that an interceptor cannot obtain them. Quantum cryptography 

addresses both problems, generating and communicating numbers. It was first explored 

by Wiesner [WIE83] in the 1980s; then the idea was developed by Bennett a decade 

later [BEN92a, BEN92b].Quantum PhysicsUnlike other cryptographic approaches, quantum cryptography is based on physics, not 

mathematics. It uses what we know about the behavior of light particles. Light particles 

are known as photons. They travel through space, vibrating in all directions; we say they 

have the directional orientation of their primary vibration. Although photons can have 

any directional orientation from 0
° to 360
°, for purposes of this explanation, we can 
