 Section 4.4  Email Attacks 
273  The problem is legitimate mass marketers, who send thousands of messages on 
behalf of hundreds of clients. Rate limitations have to allow and even promote com-

merce, while curtailing spam; balancing those two needs is the hard part.
Postage Certain private and public postal services were developed in city–states as much as two 

thousand years ago, but the modern public postal service of industrialized countries is 

a product of the 1700s. Originally the recipient, not the sender, paid the postage for a 

letter, which predictably led to letter inundation attacks. The model changed in the early 

1800s, making the sender responsible for prepaying the cost of delivery.
A similar model could be used with email. A small fee could be charged for each 
email message sent, payable through the sender’s ISP. ISPs could allow some free mes-

sages per customer, set at a number high enough that few if any individual customers 

would be subject to payment. The difficulty again would be legitimate mass mailers, but 

the cost of e-postage would simply be a recognized cost of business.
As you can see, the list of countermeasures is short and imperfect. The true challenge 
is placating and supporting legitimate mass emailers while still curtailing the activities 

of spammers.Fake (Inaccurate) Email Header DataAs we just described, one reason email attacks succeed is that the headers on email are 
easy to spoof, and thus recipients believe the email has come from a safe source. Here 

we consider precisely how the spoofing occurs and what could be done.
Control of email headers is up to the sending mail agent. The header form is stan-
dardized, but within the Internet email network as a message is forwarded to its destina-

tion, each receiving node trusts the sending node to deliver accurate content. However, 

a malicious, or even faulty, email transfer agent may send messages with inaccurate 

headers, specifically in the “from” fields.
The original email transfer system was based on a small number of trustworthy par-
ticipants, and the system grew with little attention to accuracy as the system was opened 

to less trustworthy participants. Proposals for more reliable email include authenticated 

Simple Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP) or SMTP-Auth (RFC 2554) or Enhanced 

SMTP (RFC 1869), but so many nodes, programs, and organizations are involved in the 

Internet email system that it would be infeasible now to change the basic email transport 

scheme.Without solid authentication, email sources are amazingly easy to spoof. Telnet is 
a protocol that essentially allows a user at a keyboard to send commands as if pro-

duced by an application program. The SMTP protocol, which is fully defined in RFC 

5321, involves a number of text-based conversations between mail sender and receiver. 

Because the entire protocol is implemented in plain text, a person at a keyboard can cre-

ate one side of the conversation in interaction with a server application on the other end, 

and the sender can present any message parameter value (including sender’s identity, 

date, or time).