90 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
The history of encryption is fascinating; it is well documented in David Kahn’s book 
[KAH96]. Claude Shannon is considered the father of modern cryptography because 

he laid out a formal, mathematical foundation for information security and expounded 

on several principles for secure cryptography at the naissance of digital computing 

[SHA49]. Encryption has been used for centuries to protect diplomatic and military 

communications, sometimes without full success. The word 
cryptography
 refers to 
the practice of using encryption to conceal text. A 
cryptanalyst studies encryption and 
encrypted messages, hoping to find the hidden meanings. A cryptanalyst might also 

work defensively, probing codes and ciphers to see if they are solid enough to protect 

data adequately.
Both a cryptographer and a cryptanalyst attempt to translate coded material back to 
its original form. Normally, a cryptographer works on behalf of a legitimate sender or 

receiver, whereas a cryptanalyst works on behalf of an unauthorized interceptor. Finally, 

cryptology is the research into and study of encryption and decryption; it includes both 
cryptography and cryptanalysis.CryptanalysisA cryptanalyst’s chore is to 
break
 an encryption. That is, the cryptanalyst attempts to 
deduce the original meaning of a ciphertext message. Better yet, the cryptanalyst hopes 

to determine which decrypting algorithm, and ideally which key, matches the encrypt-

ing algorithm to be able to break other messages encoded in the same way.
For instance, suppose two countries are at war and the first country has intercepted 
encrypted messages of the second. Cryptanalysts of the first country want to decipher a 

particular message so as to anticipate the movements and resources of the second. But 

even better is to discover the actual decryption method; then the first country can pen-

etrate the encryption of all messages sent by the second country.
An analyst works with a variety of information: encrypted messages, known 
encryption algorithms, intercepted plaintext, data items known or suspected to be in a 
SIDEBAR 2-14 Silken Codes
Leo Marks [MAR98] describes his life as a code-maker in Britain during 
World War II. That is, the British hired Marks and others to devise codes 

that could be used by spies and soldiers in the field. In the early days, the 
encryption scheme depended on poems that were written for each spy, 

and it relied on the spy’s ability to memorize and recall the poems correctly.
Marks reduced the risk of error by introducing a coding scheme that 
was printed on pieces of silk. Silk hidden under clothing could not be felt 
when the spy was patted down and searched. And, unlike paper, silk burns 

quickly and completely, so the spy could destroy incriminating evidence, 

also ensuring that the enemy could not get even fragments of the valuable 
code. When pressed by superiors as to why the British should use scarce 

silk (which was also needed for war-time necessities like parachutes) for 

codes, Marks said that it was a choice “between silk and cyanide.”