 Section 5.2  Security in the Design of Operating Systems 
317  Security professionals prefer to speak of trusted instead of secure 
operating systems. A trusted system connotes one that meets the intended 
security requirements, is of high enough quality, and justifies the user’s con-

fidence in that quality. That is, trust is perceived by the system’s receiver or 

user, not by its developer, designer, or manufacturer. As a user, you may not 

be able to evaluate that trust directly. You may trust the design, a profes-

sional evaluation, or the opinion of a valued colleague. But in the end, it is 
your responsibility to sanction the degree of trust you require.
We say that software is trusted software if we know that the code has 
been rigorously developed and analyzed, giving us reason to trust that the 

code does what it is expected to do and nothing more. Typically, trusted 

code can be a foundation on which other, untrusted, code runs. That is, 

the untrusted system’s quality depends, in part, on the trusted code; the 

trusted code establishes the baseline for security of the overall system. 

In particular, an operating system can be trusted software when there is a 

rational or objective basis for trusting that it correctly controls the accesses 

of components or systems run from it. 
To trust any program, we base our trust on rigorous analysis and test-
ing, looking for certain key characteristics:
• Functional correctness
. The program does what it is supposed to, and 
it works correctly.
• Enforcement of integrity
. Even if presented erroneous commands or 
commands from unauthorized users, the program maintains the cor-

rectness of the data with which it has contact.
• Limited privilege. The program is allowed to access secure data, but 
the access is minimized and neither the access rights nor the data 

are passed along to other untrusted programs or back to an untrusted 

caller.
• Appropriate confidence level
. The program has been examined and 
rated at a degree of trust appropriate for the kind of data and environ-

ment in which it is to be used.Trusted software is often used as a safe way for general users to 
access sensitive data. Trusted programs are used to perform limited (safe) 

operations for users without allowing the users to have direct access to 

sensitive data.There can be degrees of trust; unlike security, trust is not a dichotomy. 
For example, you trust certain friends with deep secrets, but you trust oth-

ers only to give you the time of day. Trust is a characteristic that often grows 

over time, in accordance with evidence and experience. For instance, 

banks increase their trust in borrowers as the borrowers repay loans as 

expected; borrowers with good trust (credit) records can borrow larger 

amounts. Finally, trust is earned, not claimed or conferred.
The adjective trusted appears many times in this chapter, as in 
• trusted process (a process that can affect system security, or a pro-
cess whose incorrect or unsecure execution is capable of violating 

system security policy) (continues)