 Section 6.8  Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems 
483  program. Everything already said of intrusion detection systems is also true of intrusion 
prevention systems. In the next section we consider some of the actions IPSs can take 

after having detected a probable attack.
Intrusion ResponseIntrusion detection is probabilistic. Even in the face of a clear pattern, such as an enor-

mous number of ping packets, perhaps thousands of people just happened to want to 

test whether a server was alive at the same time, although that possibility is highly 

unlikely. In taking action, especially if a tool causes the action automatically, a network 

administrator has to weigh the consequences of action against the possibility that there 
is no attack.Responding to AlarmsWhatever the type, an intrusion detection system raises an alarm when it finds a match. 
The alarm can range from something modest, such as writing a note in an audit log, 

to something significant, such as paging the system security administrator. Particular 

implementations allow the user to determine what action the system should take on 

what events.
What are possible responses? The range is unlimited and can be anything the admin-
istrator can imagine (and program). In general, responses fall into three major catego-

ries (any or all of which can be used in a single response):
• Monitor, collect data, perhaps increase amount of data collected.
• Protect, act to reduce exposure.

• Signal an alert to other protection components.

• Call a human.
Monitoring is appropriate for an attack of modest (initial) impact. Perhaps the real goal is to watch the intruder to see what resources are being accessed or what attempted 

attacks are tried. Another monitoring possibility is to record all traffic from a given 

source for future analysis. This approach should be invisible to the attacker. Protect-

ing can mean increasing access controls and even making a resource unavailable (for 

example, shutting off a network connection or making a file unavailable). The system 

can even sever the network connection the attacker is using. In contrast to monitoring, 

protecting may be very visible to the attacker. Finally, calling a human allows individ-

ual discrimination. The IDS can take an initial, perhaps overly strong, defensive action 

immediately while also generating an alert to a human, who may take seconds, minutes, 

or longer to respond but then applies a more detailed and specific counteraction.
AlarmThe simplest and safest action for an IDS is simply to generate an alarm to an adminis-trator who will then determine the next steps. Humans are most appropriate to judge the 

severity of a situation and choose among countermeasures. Furthermore, humans can 
