590 Chapter 9  
PrivacyComputer-Related Privacy Problems
You may notice that many kinds of sensitive data and many points about privacy have 
nothing to do with computers. You are exactly right: These sensitivities and issues pre-

date computers. Computers and networks have affected only the feasibility, speed, and 

reach of some unwanted disclosures. Public records offices have long been open for 

people to study the data held there, but the storage capacity and speed of computers 

have given us the ability to amass, search, and correlate faster and more effectively 

than ever before. With search engines we can find one data item out of billions, the 

equivalent of finding one sheet of paper out of a warehouse full of boxes of papers. 

Furthermore, the openness of networks and the portability of technology (such as lap-

tops, tablets, cell phones, and WiFi-enabled devices) have greatly increased the risk of 

disclosures affecting privacy.
Rezgui et al. [REZ03]
 list eight dimensions of privacy (specifically related to the 
web, although the definitions carry over naturally to other types of computing).
• Information collection: Data are collected only with knowledge and explicit 
consent.• Information usage
: Data are used only for certain specified purposes.
• Information retention
: Data are retained for only a set period of time.• Information disclosure
: Data are disclosed to only an authorized set of people.• Information security: Appropriate mechanisms are used to ensure the protection 
of the data.• Access control
: All modes of access to all forms of collected data are controlled.
• Monitoring: Logs are maintained showing all accesses to data.
• Policy changes
: Less restrictive policies are never applied after-the-fact to 
already obtained data.Here are the privacy issues that have come about through use of computers.
Data CollectionAs we have said, advances in computer storage make it possible to hold and manipulate 
huge numbers of records. Disks on ordinary consumer devices are measured in gigabytes 

(109 or 1 billion bytes), terabytes (10
12 or 1 trillion bytes), petabytes (10
15 or 1 quadrillion 
bytes) and exabytes (10
18 or 1 quintillion bytes). In 2012, Ngo [NGO12] reported that 
Seagate reached a milestone in storage density: one terabyte per inch, enabling production 

of a 60-terabyte hard drive. Plafke [PLA13] highlighted a team from Swinburne Univer-

sity’s Center for Micro-Photonics that “has developed a technique that can increase a 

DVD’s storage capacity from that standard 4.7 gigabytes (GB) up to 1 petabyte (PB). The 

technique doesn’t change the size or shape of the disc, but instead changes the laser used 

to read the disc’s data.” And Solar [SOL10] reported that alternatives to electronic media 

promise even larger storage devices. He describes a group at the Chinese University of 

Hong Kong that successfully used common bacteria as a secure storage device. “Based 

on the procedures tested, they estimate the ability to store about 900,000 gigabytes in one 

gram of bacteria cells. That is the equivalent of 450 hard drives, each with the capacity of 
