720 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicsprobably sense if the coverage in the 
New York Times
 is out of line with other media. 
But some information comes from only one source, or a user does not compare content 
from one location with others. Financial institutions go to one bureau for credit reports 

from potential borrowers. Law firms go to one source to search for case precedents. 

Misinformation from a single source may go undetected.Legal Issues Relating to InformationThese characteristics of information significantly affect its legal treatment. If we want 

to understand how information relates to copyright, patent, and trade secret laws, we 

must understand these attributes. We can note first that information has some limited 

legal basis for the protection. For example, information can be related to trade secrets, 

in that information is the stock in trade of the information seller. While the seller has the 

information, trade secret protection applies naturally to the seller’s legitimate ability to 

profit from information. Thus, the courts recognize that information has value.
However, as shown earlier, a trade secret has value only as long as it remains a 
secret. For instance, the Coca-Cola Company cannot expect to retain trade secret pro-

tection for its formula after it sells that formula. Also, the trade secret is not secure if 

someone else can derive or infer it.
Other forms of protection are offered by copyrights and patents. As we have seen 
earlier, neither of these applies perfectly to computer hardware or software, and they 

apply even less well to information. The pace of change in the legal system is slow, 

helping to ensure that the changes that do occur are fair and well considered. The delib-

erate pace of change in the legal system is about to be hit by the supersonic rate of 

change in the information technology industry. Laws do not, and cannot, control all 

cyber threats. Let us look at several examples of situations in which information needs 

are about to place significant demands on the legal system.
Information Commerce
Information is unlike most other goods traded, even though it has value and is the basis 
of some forms of commerce. The market for information is still young, and so far the 

legal community has experienced few problems. Nevertheless, several key issues must 

be resolved.
For example, we have seen that software piracy involves copying information with-
out offering adequate payment to those who deserve to be paid. Several approaches have 

been tried to ensure that the software developer or publisher receives just compensation 

for use of the software: copy protection, freeware, and controlled distribution. More 

recently, software is being delivered as mobile code or applets, supplied electronically 

as needed. The applet approach gives the author and distributor more control. Each 

applet can potentially be tracked and charged for, and each applet can destroy itself 

after use so that nothing remains to be passed for free to someone else. But this scheme 
requires a great deal of accounting and tracking, increasing the costs of what might 

otherwise be reasonably priced. Thus, none of the current approaches seem ideal, so a 

legal remedy will often be needed instead of, or in addition to, the technological ones.
