126 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Encrypted forauthenticityMessagedigestSignerE(M, KPRIV-S
)MFIGURE 2-35 Indication of SignerThe only other piece to add is an indication of who the signer was, so that the receiver 
knows which public key to use to unlock the encryption, as shown in Figure 2-35. The 

signer’s identity has to be outside the encryption because if it were inside, the identity 

could not be extracted.
Two extra flourishes remain to be added. First, depending on the file’s size, this 
object can be large, and asymmetric encryption is slow, not suited to encrypting large 

things. However, S’s authenticating encryption needs to cover only the secure hash 

code, not the entire file itself. If the file were modified, it would no longer match the 

hash code, so the recipient would know not to trust the object as authentic from S. And 

if the hash code were broken off and attached to a different file, it would not match 

there, either. So for efficiency we need encrypt only the hash value with S’s private key, 

as shown in Figure 2-36.
Second, the file, the data portion of the object, is exposed for anyone to read. If S 
wants confidentiality, that is, so that only one recipient can see the file contents, S can 

select a symmetric encryption key, encrypt the file, and store the key under user U’s 

asymmetric public encryption key. This final addition is shown in Figure 2-37.
In conclusion, a digital signature can indicate the authenticity of a file, especially a 
piece of code. When you attempt to install a piece of signed code, the operating sys-

tem will inspect the certificate and file and notify you if the certificate and hash are 

not acceptable. Digital signatures, coupled with strong hash functions and symmetric Encrypted forauthenticityMessagedigestSignerE(MD, KPRIV-S)MFIGURE 2-36 Asymmetric Encryption Covering the Hash Value
Encrypted forconfidentialityEncrypted forauthenticityMessagedigestSignerE(M,Sym)E(MD,KPRIV-S
)MFIGURE 2-37 Digitally Signed Object Protected for Both Integrity and 

Confidentiality
