 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
381  SSIDOne other important data value in WiFi communication is the designation of an access 
point so that a wireless device can distinguish among access points if it receives more 

than one signal. A 
Service Set Identifier
, or SSID, is the identification of an access 
point; it is a string of up to 32 characters chosen by the access point’s administrator. The 

SSID is the identifier the access point broadcasts in its beacon, and the ongoing link 

ties an associated NIC’s commu-

nications to the given access point. 

For example, your computer’s wire-

less antenna might pick up three 

beacons: CoffeeShop, Apt203, and 

Quicksand.Obviously SSIDs need to be unique in a given area to distinguish one wireless net-
work from another. For early versions of wireless access point, the factory-installed 

default, such as “wireless,” “tsunami,” or “Linksys” (a brand name), was not unique; 

now most factory defaults are a serial number unique to the device.
With this background on how wireless communication occurs, we can begin to 
explore some of the vulnerabilities.
Vulnerabilities in Wireless Networks
Wireless networks are subject to threats to confidentiality, integrity, and availability 

just like other computer applications and technologies. The attacker can either join the 

network of the target and participate in data exchanges, or merely observe the traffic as 

a bystander.
ConfidentialityCertainly, if data signals are transmitted in the open, unintended recipients may be able 
to get the data. The data values themselves are the most sensitive, but A’s communi-

cating with access point B or the duration or volume of communication may also be 

sensitive. The nature of the traffic, whether web page access, peer-to-peer networking, 

email, or network management, can also be confidential. Finally, the mode in which two 

units communicate—encrypted or not and if encrypted, by what algorithm—is poten-

tially sensitive. Thus, the confidentiality of many aspects of a communication can be 

sensitive.
IntegrityAs for integrity, we must consider both malicious and nonmalicious sources of prob-
lems. Numerous nonmalicious sources of harm include interference from other devices, 

loss or corruption of signal due to distance or intervening objects, reception problems 

caused by weather, and sporadic communication failures within the hardware and soft-

ware that implement protocol communication.
The more interesting class of integrity violations involves direct, malicious attacks to 
change the content of a communication. For unencrypted communications, the attacker 
An SSID is a string to identify a wireless 

access point.