 Section 4.5  Conclusion 
277  • Encrypt the session key under the recipient’s public key.
• Generate a message digest or hash of the message; sign the hash by encrypting it 
with the sender’s private key (for message integrity and authenticity).
• Attach the encrypted session key to the encrypted message and digest.

• Transmit the message to the recipient.
The recipient reverses these steps to retrieve and validate the message content.
S/MIMEAn Internet standard governs how email is sent and received. The general MIME speci-
fication defines the format and handling of email attachments. 
S/MIME (Secure Multi-
purpose Internet Mail Extensions) is the Internet standard for secure email attachments.S/MIME is very much like PGP and its predecessors, PEM (Privacy-Enhanced 
Mail) and RIPEM. The Internet standards documents defining S/MIME (version 3) are 

described in [HOU99] and [RAM99] S/MIME has been adopted in commercial email packages, such as Eudora and Microsoft Outlook.The principal difference between S/MIME and PGP is the method of key exchange. 
Basic PGP depends on each user’s exchanging keys with all potential recipients and 

establishing a ring of trusted recipients; it also requires establishing a degree of trust 

in the authenticity of the keys for those recipients. S/MIME uses hierarchically vali-

dated certificates, usually represented in X.509 format, for key exchange. Thus, with  

S/MIME, the sender and recipient do not need to have exchanged keys in advance as 

long as they have a common certifier they both trust.
S/MIME works with a variety of cryptographic algorithms, such as DES, AES, and 
RC2 for symmetric encryption.S/MIME performs security transformations very similar to those for PGP. PGP was 
originally designed for plaintext messages, but S/MIME handles (secures) all sorts 

of attachments, such as data files (for example, spreadsheets, graphics, presentations, 

movies, and sound). Because it is integrated into many commercial email packages,  

S/MIME is likely to dominate the secure email market.
4.5 CONCLUSION
The Internet is a dangerous place. As we have explained in this chapter, the path from 

a user’s eyes and fingers to a remote site seems to be direct but is in fact a chain of 

vulnerable components. Some of those parts belong to the network, and we consider 

security issues in the network itself in Chapter 6. But other vulnerabilities lie within the 

user’s area, in the browser, in applications, and in the user’s own actions and reactions. 

To improve this situation, either users have to become more security conscious or the 

technology more secure. As we have argued in this chapter, for a variety of reasons, nei-

ther of those improvements is likely to occur. Some users become more wary, but at the 

same time the user population continually grows with a wave of young, new users who 

do not have the skepticism of more experienced users. And technology always seems to 

respond to the market demands for functionality—the “cool” factor—not security. You 
