636 Chapter 9  
Privacyof a phishing message by spoofing a convincing source address or using a deceptive 
domain name.These kinds of email messages entice gullible users to reveal sensitive personal data. 
Because of limited regulation of the Internet, very little can be done to control these 

threats. User awareness is the best defense.
SummaryEmail is exposed from sender to receiver, and there are numerous points for interception 

along the way. Unless the email is encrypted, there is little to prevent its access along 

the way.
In businesses, governments, schools, and other organizations, network administra-
tors, and managers may read any email messages sent.
9.7 PRIVACY IMPACTS OF EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES
In this section, we look at the privacy implications of several emerging technologies. 

Nothing inherent in the technologies affects privacy, but their applications have risk. 

The first is a broadcast technology that can be used for tracking objects or people.  

Second is a group of technologies to facilitate elections. The third technology involves 

the changing methods for providing voice-grade telephone calls. And finally, building 

on the cloud security issues we presented in Chapter 8, we discuss particular privacy 

issues related to cloud computing.Radio Frequency Identification 
Radio frequency identification
 (RFID) is a technology that uses small, low-power 
wireless radio transmitters called RFID tags. The devices can be as small as a grain of 
sand and can cost less than a penny apiece. Tags are tuned to a particular frequency and 

each has a unique ID number. When a tag receives its signal from a remote product, it 

sends its ID number signal in response. Many tags have no power supply of their own 

and receive the power to send a signal from the very act of receiving a signal. Thus, 

these devices can be passive until they receive a signal from an interrogating reader. 
Some tags can be surgically implanted under the skin of humans or animals. Others 
can be embedded in a credit card or identity badge, and others can be placed in a ship-
ping or inventory label.
The distance at which they can receive and broadcast a receivable signal varies from 
roughly five centimeters (the least powerful) to several meters (the most powerful). 

Some transmitters have their own power supply (usually a battery, but it can be a solar 

collector or other associated device) and can transmit over an even greater distance. As 

receivers get better and power supplies become more portable, the reception distance 

will increase.Advances in technology have allowed smaller RFID tokens over time. For example, 
certain RFID tokens can now be manufactured in a thread, as shown in Figure 9-4.
