28 Chapter 1  
IntroductionBy demonstrating feasibility, the factors of method, opportunity, and motive deter-
mine whether an attack can succeed. These factors give the advantage to the attacker 

because they are qualities or strengths the attacker must possess. Another factor, this 

time giving an advantage to the defender, determines whether an attack will succeed: 

The attacker needs a vulnerability, an undefended place to attack. If the defender 

removes vulnerabilities, the attacker cannot attack.
1.4 VULNERABILITIES
As we noted earlier in this chapter, a 
vulnerability is a weakness in the security of the 
computer system, for example, in procedures, design, or implementation, that might 

be exploited to cause loss or harm. Think of a bank, with an armed guard at the front 

door, bulletproof glass protecting the tellers, and a heavy metal vault requiring mul-

tiple keys for entry. To rob a bank, you would have to think of how to exploit a weak-

ness not covered by these defenses. For example, you might bribe a teller or pose as a 

maintenance worker.
Computer systems have vulnerabilities, too. In this book we consider many, such 
as weak authentication, lack of access control, errors in programs, finite or insufficient 

resources, and inadequate physical protection. Paired with a credible attack, each of 

these vulnerabilities can allow harm 

to confidentiality, integrity, or avail-

ability. Each attack vector seeks to 

exploit a particular vulnerability.
Security analysts speak of a 
system’s 
attack surface, which is the system’s full set of vulnerabilities—actual and 
potential. Thus, the attack surface includes physical hazards, malicious attacks by 

outsiders, stealth data theft by insiders, mistakes, and impersonations. Although such 

attacks range from easy to highly improbable, analysts must consider all possibilities.Our next step is to find ways to block threats by neutralizing vulnerabilities.
1.5 CONTROLS
A control
 or 
countermeasure
 is a means to counter threats. Harm occurs when a threat 
is realized against a vulnerability. To protect against harm, then, we can neutralize the 

threat, close the vulnerability, or both. The possibility for harm to occur is called risk. 

We can deal with harm in several ways:
• prevent
 it, by blocking the attack or closing the vulnerability• deter it, by making the attack harder but not impossible
• deflect it, by making another target more attractive (or this one less so)
• mitigate it, by making its impact less severe
• detect it, either as it happens or some time after the fact
• recover
 from its effects
Vulnerabilities are weaknesses that can 
allow harm to occur.
