476 Chapter 6  
Networks• assessing the integrity of critical system and data files
• recognizing known attack patterns in system activity

• identifying abnormal activity through statistical analysis

• managing audit trails and highlighting user violation of policy or normal activity

• correcting system configuration errors

• installing and operating traps to record information about intruders
No one IDS performs all of these functions. Let us look more closely at the kinds of IDSs and their use in providing security.
Types of IDSs
The two general types of intrusion detection systems are signature based and heuris-

tic. Signature-based
 intrusion detection systems perform simple pattern-matching and 
report situations that match a pattern (signature) corresponding to a known attack type. 

Heuristic intrusion detection systems, also known as 
anomaly based, build a model 
of acceptable behavior and flag exceptions to that model; for the future, the admin-

istrator can mark a flagged behavior as acceptable so that the heuristic IDS will now 

treat that previously unclassified behavior as acceptable. Thus, heuristic intrusion detec-

tion systems are said to learn what constitute anomalies or improper behavior. This 

learning occurs as an artificial intel-

ligence component of the tool, the 

inference engine
, identifies pieces 
of attacks and rates the degree to 

which these pieces are associated 

with malicious behavior.
Intrusion detection devices can be network based or host based. A 
network-based
 IDS is a stand-alone device attached to the network to monitor traffic throughout that 

network; a 
host-based IDS runs on a single workstation or client or host, to protect that 
one host.Early intrusion detection systems (for example, [DEN87, LUN90, FOX90, LIE89]) 
worked after the fact by reviewing logs of system activity to spot potential misuses 

that had occurred. The administrator could review the results of the IDS to find and fix 

weaknesses in the system. Now, however, intrusion detection systems operate in real 

time (or near real time), watching activity and raising alarms in time for the administra-

tor to take protective action.
Signature-Based Intrusion Detection
A simple signature for a known attack type might describe a series of TCP SYN packets 
sent to many different ports in succession and at times close to one another, as would 

be the case for a port scan. An intrusion detection system would probably find noth-

ing unusual in the first SYN, say, to port 80, and then another (from the same source 

address) to port 25. But as more and more ports receive SYN packets, especially ports 

that normally receive little traffic, this pattern reflects a possible port scan. Similarly, 
Signature-based IDSs look for patterns; 

heuristic ones learn characteristics of 

unacceptable behavior over time.