398 Chapter 6  
NetworksConfidentiality and integrity tend to be binary: Data or objects either are or are not 
kept private and unmodified; availability can be more nuanced, in that there may be 

service but in insufficient quantity or at unacceptable responsiveness. You know that a 

web page takes a few seconds to load, but as time passes you become more frustrated 

or suspicious that it will never display; then, suddenly it appears and you wonder why it 

took so long. Thus, denial of service ranges from complete loss of access to noticeable 

and unacceptable slowing to inconvenience.
How Service Is DeniedIn this section we describe what causes denial of service. Many causes are nonmalicious 

and often sporadic and spontaneous, so little can be done about them. We focus on the 

malicious causes because those are the ones that can be dealt with. Fortunately, several 

classes of countermeasures are effective against malicious denial-of-service attacks. 

First, we consider some of the causes.Think for a moment about how you might deny access in a computer network. 
• One potential weakness is the capacity of the system. If demand is higher than 
the system can handle, some data will not move properly through the network. 

These attacks are also known as 
volume-based
 or volumetric 
attacks.• Similarly to overwhelming basic network capacity, an attack can exhaust the 
application that services a particular network, in what is called an 
application-based attack.• Another way to deny service is to cut or disable the communications link 
between two points. Many users will be unable to receive service, especially if 

that link is a single point through which much traffic must pass.
• A final cause of denied access is a hardware or software failure. Although simi-
lar to a failure of a com-

munications link, in this 

case the problem relates to 

machinery or programs, for 

which protection can involve 

concepts like fault tolerance.
First we examine the issue of insufficient capacity.
FloodingImagine a teacher in a classroom full of six-year-olds. Each child demands the teacher’s 
attention. At first, the teacher hears one child and gives the child attention. Then a sec-

ond child calls, and the teacher focuses on that child while trying to remember what the 
first child needed. Seeing that calling out works, children three, four, and five cry out 

for the teacher, but this frustrates other children who also demand attention. Of course, 

each child who calls out does so more loudly than the previous ones, and soon the class-

room is a cacophony of children’s shouts, making it impossible for the teacher to do 

anything except tell them all to be quiet, wait their turn, and be patient (none of which 
DOS can occur from excessive volume, 

a failed application, a severed link, or 

hardware or software failure.
