 Section 12.4  Message Digests 
799  was not prime is at most 1/2. You repeat the process with a new value for 
r chosen at 
random. If this second r passes, the likelihood that a nonprime 
p could pass both tests is 
at most 1/4. In general, after the process is repeated k times without either test failing, 
the likelihood that 
p is not a prime is at most 1/2k.Cryptanalysis of the RSA AlgorithmThe RSA method has been scrutinized intensely by professionals in computer security and cryptanalysis. Several minor problems have been identified with it, none of signifi-

cant concern; Boneh [BON99] catalogs known attacks on RSA. He notes no successful 

attacks on RSA itself, but several serious but improbable attacks on implementation and 

use of RSA.RSA is by far the most popular public key encryption algorithm in use. Now we 
turn to two applications of cryptography: message digests and digital signatures, 

both of which we introduce in Chapter 2. In this chapter we explore the algorithms in 

more detail.12.4 MESSAGE DIGESTS
In Chapter 2 we introduce the concept of error detection and correction codes. In 

particular, we describe one-way and cryptographic hash functions, both of which are 

designed to protect against malicious attempts to modify data and also adjust the code 
value to match the modified data.
Hash FunctionsAs presented in Chapter 2, hash or message digest functions are ways to detect possible 

changes to a block of data. These functions signal unintentional changes as well as 

intentional (malicious) ones.For unintentional changes, the signal function can be open, for example, parity bits 
or more complicated error detection and correction codes, such as Hamming codes 

[HAM50] and Reed Solomon codes [REE60]. In this book we are more interested in 
schemes for detecting malicious change and preventing the attacker from subverting the 

detection technique.One-Way Hash Functions
One-way hash functions are a cryptographic construct with multiple uses. They are used 

in conjunction with public-key algorithms for both encryption and digital signatures. 

They are used in integrity checking. They are used in authentication. They are used in 

communications protocols. Much more than encryption algorithms, one-way hash func-

tions are the workhorses of modern cryptography.
One-way functions prevent an outsider from taking an existing hash result and deter-
mining other data values that match that hash result. Thus, Hector might have received 
