 Section 10.3  Handling Incidents 
663  Advance PlanningAs with all planning functions, advance planning works best because people can think 
logically, unhurried, and without pressure or emotion. What constitutes an incident may 

be vague. We cannot know the details of an incident in advance. Typical characteristics 

include harm or risk of harm to computer systems, data, processing, or people; ini-

tial uncertainty as to the extent of damage; and similar uncertainty as to the source or 

method of the incident. For example, you can see that the file is missing or the home 

page has been defaced, but you do not know how or by whom or what other damage 

there may be.In organizations that have not done incident planning, chaos may develop at this 
point. Someone runs to the network manager. Someone sends email to the help desk. 

Someone calls the FBI, the CERT, the newspapers, or the fire department. People start 

to investigate on their own, without coordinating with the relevant staff in other depart-

ments, agencies, or businesses. And conversation, rumor, and misinformation ensue: 

often more noise than substance.With an incident response plan in place, everybody is trained in advance to contact 
the designated leader. The plan establishes a list of people to alert, in order, in case 

the first person is unavailable. The leader decides what to do next, beginning by deter-

mining if this is a real incident or a 
false alarm. Indeed, natural events 

sometimes look like incidents, and 

the facts of the situation should 

be established first. If the leader 

decides this may be a real incident, 
he or she invokes the response team.
RespondingThe response team
 is the set of people charged with responding to the incident. The 
response team may include• director
: person in charge of the incident, who decides what actions to take 
and when to terminate the response. The director is typically a management 

employee.
• technician(s)
: people who perform the technical part of the response. The lead 
technician decides where to focus attention, analyzes situation data, documents 
the incident and how it was handled, and calls for other technical people to assist 

with the analysis.• advisor(s): legal, human resources, or public relations staff members as 
appropriate.In a small incident a single person can handle more than one of these roles. Never-
theless, a single person should be in charge, someone who directs the response work, a 

single point of contact for “insiders” (employees, users), and a single official represen-

tative for “the public.”
An incident response plan tells whom 

to contact in the event of an incident, 
which may be just an unconfirmed, 
unusual situation.