34 Chapter 1  
Introductionsecurity may not be addressed as fully as it should. These areas are the so-called Internet 
of Things (the interconnection of network-enabled devices from toasters to automobiles 

and insulin pumps), computer security economics, electronic voting, and computer-

assisted terrorism and warfare.
We trust this organization will help you to appreciate the richness of an important 
field that touches many of the things we depend on.
1.8 EXERCISES
1. Distinguish between vulnerability, threat, and control.
2. Theft usually results in some kind of harm. For example, if someone steals your car, you may 
suffer financial loss, inconvenience (by losing your mode of transportation), and emotional 

upset (because of invasion of your personal property and space). List three kinds of harm a 

company might experience from theft of computer equipment.
3. List at least three kinds of harm a company could experience from electronic espionage or 
unauthorized viewing of confidential company materials.
4. List at least three kinds of damage a company could suffer when the integrity of a program 
or company data is compromised.
5. List at least three kinds of harm a company could encounter from loss of service, that is, 
failure of availability. List the product or capability to which access is lost, and explain how 

this loss hurts the company.
6. Describe a situation in which you have experienced harm as a consequence of a failure of 
computer security. Was the failure malicious or not? Did the attack target you specifically or 

was it general and you were the unfortunate victim?
7. Describe two examples of vulnerabilities in automobiles for which auto manufacturers have 
instituted controls. Tell why you think these controls are effective, somewhat effective, or 

ineffective.
8. One control against accidental software deletion is to save all old versions of a program. 
Of course, this control is prohibitively expensive in terms of cost of storage. Suggest a less 

costly control against accidental software deletion. Is your control effective against all pos-

sible causes of software deletion? If not, what threats does it not cover?
9. On your personal computer, who can install programs? Who can change operating system 
data? Who can replace portions of the operating system? Can any of these actions be per-

formed remotely?10. Suppose a program to print paychecks secretly leaks a list of names of employees earning 
more than a certain amount each month. What controls could be instituted to limit the vulner-

ability of this leakage?11. Preserving confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data is a restatement of the concern 
over interruption, interception, modification, and fabrication. How do the first three concepts 

relate to the last four? That is, is any of the four equivalent to one or more of the three? Is one 

of the three encompassed by one or more of the four?12. Do you think attempting to break in to (that is, obtain access to or use of) a computing system without authorization should be illegal? Why or why not?
