800 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographya message saying “I willingly give to Hector my prized golden sponge cake recipe” 
and some other things. Hector can certainly change “sponge cake recipe” to “bullion 

collection” but then Hector is stuck: He needs to make other changes to the message, 

but he needs to know other content that would produce the original hash value. With a 

one-way function he can guess “recipe file,” “box of pieces of string too short to use,” 

and so forth. But he has to invent each such phrase and test it. It would be easier if he 

could run the hash function in reverse and get a list of inputs that would produce a given 

hash result. Alas, with a one-way function Hector is going to have to keep trying until 

he finds a match.
Modern hash functions must meet two criteria: They are one-way, meaning that they 
convert input to a digest, but it is infeasible to start with a digest value and infer an input 

that could have produced that digest. Second, they do not have obvious collisions, mean-

ing that it is infeasible to find a pair of different plaintexts that produce the same digest.
3Message DigestsThe most widely used cryptographic hash functions are MD4, MD5 (where MD stands 
for Message Digest), and SHA or 
SHS (Secure Hash Algorithm or Standard). The MD4/5 
algorithms were invented by Ronald Rivest and RSA Laboratories in 1990–1992. MD5 

is an improved version of MD4. Both condense a message of any size to a 128-bit digest.
SHA is actually a growing family of algorithms: SHA-0, the original SHA, based on 
MD4/MD5, was published by NIST in 1993 but was withdrawn shortly thereafter because 

of an undisclosed “significant flaw.” It was replaced by a slightly revised version, known 

as SHA-1. SHA-1 produces a 160-bit message digest from any input up to 2
64 bits.Wang et al. [WAN05] announced cryptanalytic attacks on SHA-1, MD4, and MD5. 
For SHA-1, the attack is able to find two plaintexts that produce the same hash digest 

in approximately 263 steps, far short of the 2
80 steps that would be expected of a 160-bit 
hash function, and very feasible for a moderately well financed attacker. Although this 

attack does not mean SHA is useless (the attacker must collect and analyze a large num-

ber of ciphertext samples), it does suggest use of long digests and long keys.
SHA-2In 2008, NIST published a new hash standard, FIPS 180-3 [NIS08], that defines algo-
rithms based on the SHA algorithm, but producing significantly longer digests, which 

counteract the attack described by Wang. These new algorithms are known collectively 

as SHA-2. 3. Note: Some authors refer to this second property as “collision free,” but that is a misleading term. Every 
hash function will have collisions—many of them, because the function takes a relatively large input and 

produces a relatively small digest. It is physically impossible to reduce 512 bits to a 128-bit digest and not 

have collisions. The point is that the collisions are unpredictable. We know collisions will occur; it is just 

infeasible to predict which pairs will collide or, given one input, to enumerate other inputs with which the 

first will collide.
