 Section 11.7  Incident Analysis with Ethics 
761  Searching for Vulnerabilities and Customers
What are the ethical issues involved in searching for vulnerabilities? Again, the party 
of greatest interest is the user community and the good or harm that can come from 

the search.On the positive side, searching may find vulnerabilities. Clearly, it would be wrong 
for Goli to report vulnerabilities that were not there simply to get work, and it would 

also be wrong to report some but not all vulnerabilities to be able to use the additional 

vulnerabilities as future leverage against the client.
But suppose Goli does a diligent search for vulnerabilities and reports them to the potential client. Is that not similar to a service station owner’s advising you that a head-

light is not operating when you take your car in for gasoline? Not quite, you might say. 

The headlight flaw can be seen without any possible harm to your car; probing for vul-

nerabilities might cause your system to fail.
The ethical question seems to be which is greater: the potential for good or the poten-
tial for harm? And if the potential for good is stronger, how much stronger does it need 

to be to override the risk of harm?
This problem is also related to the common practice of ostensible nonmalicious 
probing for vulnerabilities: Hackers see if they can access your system without your 

permission, perhaps by guessing a password. Eugene Spafford [SPA98] points out that 

many crackers simply want to look around, without damaging anything. As discussed in 

Sidebar 11-3, Spafford compares this seemingly innocent activity with entry into your 

house when the door is unlocked. Even when done without malicious intent, crack-

ing can be a serious offense; at its worst, it has caused millions of dollars in damage. 

Although crackers are prosecuted severely with harsh penalties, cracking continues to 

be an appealing crime, especially to juveniles.
SIDEBAR 11-3 Is Cracking a Benign Practice?
Many people argue that cracking is an acceptable practice because lack of protection means that the owners of systems or data do not really value 

them. Eugene Spafford [SPA98] questions this logic by using the analogy 

of entering a house.Consider the argument that an intruder who does no harm and makes 
no changes is simply learning about how computer systems operate. “Most 

of these people would never think to walk down a street, trying every door to 

find one unlocked, then search through the drawers or the furniture inside. 

Yet, these same people seem to give no second thought to making repeated 

attempts at guessing passwords to accounts they do not own, and once onto 

a system, browsing through the files on disk.” How would you feel if you knew 

your home had been invaded, even if no harm was done?
Spafford notes that breaking into a house or a computer system con-
stitutes trespassing. To do so in an effort to make security vulnerabilities 
(continues)