540 Chapter 7  
Databasesnonobvious connections in data, but data-mining applications often use fuzzy logic 
to find these connections. These approaches will generate both false positives (false 

matches) and missed connections (false negatives). We need to be sensitive to the inher-

ent inaccuracy of data-mining approaches and guard against putting too much trust in 

the output of a data-mining application just because “the computer said so.”
Correct results and correct interpretation of those results are major security issues for data mining.Availability of Data
Interoperability among distinct databases is a third security issue for data mining. As 
we just described, databases must have compatible structure and semantics to make data 

mining possible. Missing or incomparable data can make data mining results incorrect, 

so perhaps a better alternative is not to produce a result. But no result is not the same 

as a result of no correlation. As 

with single databases, data-mining 

applications must deal with multi-
ple sensitivities. Trying to combine 

databases on an attribute with more 

sensitive values can lead to no data 

and hence no matches.Big DataThe term big data means analysis of massive amounts of data, often collected from 
different sources. Traditionally, a grocery might guess it could sell 100 heads of lettuce 

in a week; if the guess was too low, some shoppers left the store with no lettuce, but if 

the guess was too high, the grocer might have to mark down the price of lettuce at the 

end of the week to move out stock before it spoiled. Looking at long-range weather 

forecasts, the grocer might notice a predicted heat wave and order additional lettuce, as 

people would want light food such as salads in hot weather. Or the grocer might reduce 

the order during certain times when many customers would leave town on holiday. All 

this analysis was ad hoc, depending on a grocer’s sense and knowledge of the market. 

Big companies applied similar logic to decide how many cars or shirts to manufacture, 

or whether to invest in new plants and equipment, although with more expensive deci-

sions the penalty for guessing wrong was more severe.
The grocer’s analysis was limited by the data available. Opening a second store in 
a more health-conscious region might lead the grocer to stock more lettuce and fewer 

doughnuts. The grocer might hypothesize a relationship between the number of auto-

mobiles of a particular model that drove past the store and the amount of expensive 

cheese sold, but counting cars was infeasible. Knowing that the number of cases of flu 

reported to local doctors was going up might influence how many boxes of tissues to 

stock, but the grocer had no access to physicians’ data. Worst, the grocer could not know 

what the customers were thinking.Data on customers is readily available if only someone has the ability to collect, 
store, and analyze it. Computing power, measured by computations per second, has 
Combining data tables with no natural 
and accurate common field (key) leads 
to many faulty results.
