352 Chapter 6  
Networksdata is called a 
frame. Every NIC 
puts data onto the communications 
medium when it has data to transmit 

and seizes from the network those 

frames with its own address as a des-

tination address.On the receiving (destination) side, this process is exercised in reverse: The NIC 
card receives frames destined for it. The recipient network layer checks that the packet 

is really addressed to it. Packets may not arrive in the order in which they were sent 

(because of network delays or differences in paths through the network), so the session 

layer may have to reorder packets. The presentation layer removes compression and sets 

the appearance appropriate for the destination computer. Finally, the application layer 

formats and delivers the data as a complete unit.
The layering and coordinating are a lot of work, and each protocol layer does its 
own part. But the work is worth the effort because the different layers are what enable 

Outlook running on an IBM PC on an Ethernet network in Washington D.C. to com-

municate with a user running Eudora on an Apple computer via a dial-up connection in 

Prague. Moreover, the separation by layers helps the network staff troubleshoot when 

something goes awry.
RoutingWe still have not answered the question of how data get from a source NIC to the desti-
nation. The Internet has many devices called 
routers
, whose purpose is to redirect pack-
ets in an effort to get them closer to their destination. Routing protocols are intricate, but 

basically when a router receives a packet it uses a table to determine the quickest path 

to the destination and forwards the packet to the next step on that path. Routers commu-

nicate with neighboring routers to 

update the state of connectivity and 

traffic flow; with these updates the 

routers continuously update their 

tables of best next steps.
PortsAs we just described, data do not just magically slip into a computer or execute on 
their own; some active program on the receiving computer has to accept the data and 

store or process them. Some programs solicit data, like the box that prompts for a name 

and password, but other times those data arrive from the network and must be directed 

to a program that will handle them. An example of this latter case is incoming email: 

New mail can be sent at any time, so a service program running on a computer has to 

be ready to receive email and pass it along to a user’s email client such as Microsoft 

Outlook or Mozilla Thunderbird. Such services are sometimes called 
daemons; for 
example, the daemon ready to receive incoming mail is named 
popd, the daemon that supports the Post Office Protocol mail reception function.
MAC address: unique identifier of a 

network interface card that connects a 

computer and a networkRouters direct traffic on a path that 

leads to a destination.