 Section 6.4  Denial of Service 
397  Among the sites under attack were those of• the president 
• parliament
• many government departments

• political parties

• major news organizations

• major banks

• telecommunications firms
Attacks began on 27 April after the statue was moved, and they continued for several 
days. On 8–9 May, a period when Russia celebrates its victory over the Nazis in World 

War II, the attacks surged again, and they rose again in the middle of May before even-

tually subsiding. Estonia is one of the most heavily computerized countries in the world and has pio-
neered e-government; the slowdown on major government and commercial sites for 

almost a month had a serious impact on their citizens’ ability to do business.
The Estonian computer emergency response team determined that the attacks were 
coming largely from outside Estonia. Experts acted quickly to close down sites under 

attack and to apply other controls to limit inbound traffic. Emergency response teams 

from the European Union and the United States were called in to help manage the attack 
[VAM07].
Pinpointing the source of the attack was not possible, The source of such attacks is 
often unclear, because determining where the traffic was routed from most recently is 

not the same as identifying the original source of the attack. Although the Estonian For-

eign Minister accused the Kremlin of involvement, the Defense Minister acknowledged 

there was no definitive evidence of 

that. One Russian was convicted in 

Estonia of a minor role in the attack. 
Responsibility for planning, coordi-
nating, and mounting the attack has 

not been and probably never will be 

established [EVR09].Isolated action? No. In January 2013, the New York Times
 website was bombarded by 
a massive denial-of-service attack, as were the sites of the 
Washington Post
 and the 
Wall 
Street Journal
. Allegedly, these websites were attacked by hackers with ties to China. 
In August 2013, a group identified as the Syrian Electronic Army allegedly shut off 

access to the New York Times
 website for 20 hours. In June 2014 the same group alleg-
edly redirected readers of Reuters
 from a story describing a Syrian attack to a message 
reporting the site had been hacked. Denial of service for political purposes is a potent 

tool. Financial institutions have also been targeted with attacks from unknown sources.
A denial-of-service,
 or 
DoS, attack is an attempt to defeat availability, the third of 
the three basic properties to be preserved in computer security. Denial of service means 

just what its name implies: a user is denied access to authorized services or data. Confi-

dentiality and integrity are concerned with preventing unauthorized access; availability 

is concerned with preserving authorized access.The source of a denial-of-service attack 

is typically difficult or impossible to 

determine with certainty.
