536 Chapter 7  
Databasespreviously unknown and perhaps even unpredictable. Did you know that left-handed 
people are more likely to prefer fried eggs to poached eggs? (We have no idea whether 

that is true.) A team of researchers with a database containing hand dominance and egg 

preferences could find that and other breathtaking statistical correlations, all through the 

wonders of data mining. The data-mining community has grown without much consid-

eration of security, so we list some security issues ripe for consideration.
Data mining is closely related to the concept of big data, which involves the col-
lection of massive amounts of data, often not intended to be databases or structured as 

such. The emphasis is on the term “big,” for example, the set of all index entries for 

search engines. When a search engine reports it has 17 million pages answering your 

query, it probably does, although the usefulness of the 17 millionth link may not be 

high. Most of us find what we want in the first few results or we conclude that the query 

is not getting the results we want and ask a different question.
In the next section we explore data mining and big data, pointing out security aspects 
of both.Data MiningDatabases are great repositories of data. More data are being collected and saved (partly 

because the cost per megabyte of storage has fallen from dollars a few years ago to 

fractions of cents today). Networks and the Internet allow sharing of databases by peo-

ple and in ways previously unimagined. But finding needles of information in those 

vast fields of haystacks of data requires intelligent analyzing and querying of the data. 

Indeed, a whole specialization, called data mining, has emerged. In a largely auto-
mated way, data mining applications sort and search through data.
Data mining uses statistics, machine learning, mathematical models, pattern recog-
nition, and other techniques to discover patterns and relations on large datasets. (See, 

for example, [SEI06].) Data-mining tools use association (one event often goes with 

another), sequences (one event often leads to another), classification (events exhibit 

patterns, for example, coincidence), clustering (some items have similar characteristics) 

and forecasting (past events foretell future ones).
The distinction between a database and a data-mining application is becoming 
blurred; you can probably see how you could implement these techniques in ordinary 

database queries. Generally, database queries are manual, whereas data mining is more 

automatic. You could develop a database query to see what other products are bought 

by people who buy digital cameras and you might notice a preponderance of MP3 play-

ers in the result, but you would have to observe that relationship yourself. Data-mining 

tools would present the significant relationships, not just between cameras and MP3 

players, but also between bagels, airline tickets, and running shoes. (Again, we have 

no idea if such a relationship exists.) Humans have to analyze these correlations and 

determine what is significant.
Data mining presents probable relationships, but these are not necessarily cause and 
effect relationships. Suppose you analyzed data and found a correlation between sale of 

ice cream cones and death by drowning. You would not conclude that selling ice cream 

cones causes drowning (nor the converse). This distinction shows why humans must 
