560 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computingat multiple, geographically diverse data centers, you still have to worry about those data 
centers sharing many vulnerabilities in common as well as the risk of the provider going 

out of business. If you decide to mitigate these risks by outsourcing to two cloud provid-

ers instead of one, you’ll have one more concern to watch out for: Many cloud providers 

are themselves customers of bigger cloud providers. If one of your cloud providers is 

selling services to the other, you may not have the redundancy you think you have.
In addition to mainstream cloud services providing redundancy and diversity to busi-
ness operation, other cloud services have sprung up to focus specifically on security 

operations. Many security tools handle massive amounts of traffic and are therefore 

difficult for customers to outsource to cloud providers (which would require routing all 

that traffic through the provider), but a few fit nicely in the cloud paradigm:
• Email filtering
. SMTP already routes email to and from servers all over the 
Internet, so adding an extra hop to a cloud provider for filtering is very little 

trouble. Cloud providers remove spam and dangerous attachments before for-

warding email to customers and hold suspicious messages in quarantine so cus-

tomers can inspect them safely.
• DDoS protection
. Cloud-based DDoS protection services update your DNS 
records to insert their servers as proxies between customers’ outward-facing ser-

vices and the Internet. They maintain sufficient bandwidth to handle the flood 

of attack traffic, and once they detect an attack they begin filtering malicious 

packets before the packets can reach customers.
• Network monitoring. 
Log analysis and SIEM tools (see section 6.9) have steep 
processor, memory, and storage requirements, and require expertise to use effec-

tively. To help companies deal with these issues, some cloud-based solutions 

have emerged. Customers can forward all their log data to a cloud provider run-

ning a SIEM on seemingly limitless infrastructure, and they can alleviate con-

cerns about losing data because they lack storage or having queries take too 

long because of processor limitations. Customers with log analysis and incident 
response expertise can remotely log in to the SIEM and use it as though it were 

running on local hardware. Customers who cannot afford adequate expertise can 

outsource some or all of their SOC operations to a cloud provider.
8.3 CLOUD SECURITY TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES
Cloud security is not inherently different from information security generally, but it 

does present a unique threat vector: shared processing, storage, and communication 

resources with potential adversaries. As a result, the standard approach to securing 

cloud services has been to use the same basic tools we discuss elsewhere in this book—

encryption, secure programming, network security products, and the like—but adapt 

them to work with common cloud offerings and to respect the new threats that come 

from using shared resources.