278 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
as computer professionals with a healthy understanding of security threats and vulner-
abilities, need to be the voices of reason arguing for more security.
In the next chapter we delve more deeply into the computing environment and 
explore how the operating system participates in providing security.
4.6 EXERCISES
1. The SilentBanker man-in-the-browser attack depends on malicious code that is integrated 
into the browser. These browser helpers are essentially unlimited in what they can do. Sug-

gest a design by which such helpers are more rigorously controlled. Does your approach 

limit the usefulness of such helpers?2. A cryptographic nonce is important for confirming that a party is active and fully participat-
ing in a protocol exchange. One reason attackers can succeed with many web-page attacks 

is that it is relatively easy to craft authentic-looking pages that spoof actual sites. Suggest 

a technique by which a user can be assured that a page is both live and authentic from a 

particular site. That is, design a mark, data interchange, or some other device that shows the 

authenticity of a web page.3. Part of the problem of malicious code, including programs that get in the middle of legiti-
mate exchanges, is that it is difficult for a user to know what a piece of code really does. For 

example, if you voluntarily install a toolbar, you expect it to speed your search or fulfill some 

other overt purpose; you do not expect it to intercept your password. Outline an approach by 

which a piece of code would assert its function and data items it needed to access. Would a 

program such as a browser be able to enforce those access limits? Why or why not?
4. A CAPTCHA puzzle is one way to enforce that certain actions need to be carried out by a 
real person. However, CAPTCHAs are visual, depending not just on a person’s seeing the 

image but also on a person’s being able to recognize distorted letters and numbers. Suggest 

another method usable by those with limited vision.5. Are computer-to-computer authentications subject to the weakness of replay? Why or 
why not?6. A real attack involved a network of air defense controllers' computer screens. In that attack, 
false images were fed to the screens making it appear that the skies were empty when an 

actual air attack was underway. Sketch a block diagram of inputs, processing, and outputs 

designers of such a system might have used. Show in your diagram where there are single 

points of failure. In some situations, we can prevent single-point failures by duplicating 

a component that might fail. Would such a strategy work in this case? Why or why not? 

Another counter to single failure points is to triangulate, to obtain different kinds of data 

from two or more sources and use each data piece to validate the others. Suggest how trian-

gulation could have applied in this case.
7. List factors that would cause you to be more or less convinced that a particular email mes-
sage was authentic. Which of the more convincing factors from your list would have been 

present in the example of the South Korean diplomatic secrets?
8. State an example of how framing could be used to trick a victim.
9. Explain how a forger can create an authentic-looking web site for a commercial establishment.
