460 Chapter 6  
Networksmessages so that inside users can read them). A flawed application, running with all-
users privileges, can cause much damage.
An application proxy gateway
, also called a bastion host, is a firewall that simu-
lates the (proper) effects of an application at level 7 so that the application receives only 

requests to act properly. A proxy 

gateway is a two-headed device: 

From inside, the gateway appears to 

be the outside (destination) connec-

tion, while to outsiders the proxy host 

responds just as the insider would. In 

fact, it behaves like a man in the mid-

dle as described in Chapter 4.An application proxy runs pseudoapplications. For instance, when electronic mail 
is transferred to a location, a sending process at one site and a receiving process at the 

destination communicate by a protocol that establishes the legitimacy of a mail transfer 

and then actually passes the mail message. The protocol between sender and destination 

is carefully defined. A proxy gateway essentially intrudes in the middle of this protocol 

exchange, seeming like a destination in communication with the sender that is outside 

the firewall, and seeming like the sender in communication with the real recipient on the 

inside. The proxy in the middle has the opportunity to screen the mail transfer, ensuring 

that only acceptable email protocol commands and content are sent in either direction. 
(Typically firewalls focus on protecting insider recipients from harmful content sent 

from outside.)As an example of application proxying, consider the FTP (file transfer) protocol. 
Specific protocol commands fetch (get) files from a remote location, store (put) files 

onto a remote host, list files (ls) in a directory on a remote host, and position the process 

(cd) at a particular point in a directory tree on a remote host. The commands of the FTP 

protocol are actually a subset of commands a user could execute from a workstation to 

manipulate files. Some administrators might want to permit gets but block puts, and to 

list only certain files or prohibit changing out of a particular directory (so that an out-

sider could retrieve only files from a prespecified directory). The proxy would simulate 

both sides of this protocol exchange. For example, in one instance the proxy might 

accept get commands but reject put commands. In another situation a proxy could filter 

the local response to a request to list files so as to reveal only a subset of files the inside 

administrator was willing to expose to outsiders.
To understand the real purpose of a proxy gateway, let us consider several examples.
• A company wants to set up an online price list so that outsiders can see the prod-
ucts and prices offered. It wants to be sure that (a) no outsider can change the 

prices or product list and (b) outsiders can access only the price list, not any of 

the more sensitive files stored inside.
• A school wants to allow its students to retrieve any information from World 
Wide Web resources on the Internet. To help provide efficient service, the school 

wants to know what sites have been visited and what files from those sites have 

been fetched; particularly popular files will be cached locally.
An application proxy simulates the 

behavior of a protected application on 

the inside network, allowing in only 
safe data.