 Section 3.1  Unintentional (Nonmalicious) Programming Oversights 
139  by masquerading as the operating system, the attacker can execute commands in a pow-
erful role. Therefore, by replacing a few instructions right after returning from his or her 

own procedure, the attacker regains control from the operating system, possibly with 

raised privileges. This technique is called 
privilege escalation
. If the buffer overflows 
into system code space, the attacker merely inserts overflow data that correspond to the 

machine code for instructions.In the other kind of attack, the intruder may wander into an area called the stack and 
heap. Subprocedure calls are handled with a stack, a data structure in which the most 
recent item inserted is the next one removed (last arrived, first served). This structure 

works well because procedure calls can be nested, with each return causing control to 

transfer back to the immediately preceding routine at its point of execution. Each time a 

procedure is called, its parameters, the return address (the address immediately after its 
call), and other local values are pushed onto a stack. An old stack pointer is also pushed 

onto the stack, and a stack pointer register is reloaded with the address of these new 

values. Control is then transferred to the subprocedure.
As the subprocedure executes, it fetches parameters that it finds by using the address 
pointed to by the stack pointer. Typically, the stack pointer is a register in the proces-

sor. Therefore, by causing an overflow into the stack, the attacker can change either the 

old stack pointer (changing the context for the calling procedure) or the return address 

(causing control to transfer where the attacker intends when the subprocedure returns). 

Changing the context or return address allows the attacker to redirect execution to code 

written by the attacker.
In both these cases, the assailant must experiment a little to determine where the 
overflow is and how to control it. But the work to be done is relatively small—probably 

a day or two for a competent analyst. These buffer overflows are carefully explained 

in a paper by Mudge [MUD95] (real name, Pieter Zatko) of the famed l0pht computer 
FIGURE 3-3 Memory Organization with User and System Areas
System DataProgram CodeLocal DataSystem CodeHigh addressesLow addressesStackHeap