488 Chapter 6  
NetworksAccurate Situation AssessmentIntrusion detection systems are not perfect, and mistakes are their biggest problem. 
Although an IDS might detect an intruder correctly most of the time, it may stumble in 
two different ways: by raising an alarm for something that is not really an attack (called 

a false positive, or type I error in the statistical community) or not raising an alarm for a 

real attack (a false negative, or type II error). Too many false positives, as with the Tar-

get breach, means the administrator will be less confident of the IDS’s warnings, per-

haps leading to a real alarm’s being ignored. But false negatives mean that real attacks 

are passing the IDS without action. We say that the degree of false positives and false 

negatives represents the sensitivity of the system. Most IDS implementations allow the 

administrator to tune the system’s sensitivity in order to strike an acceptable balance 

between false positives and negatives.
IDS Strengths and Limitations
Intrusion detection systems are evolving products. Research began in the mid-1980s 

and commercial products had appeared by the mid-1990s. However, this area continues 

to change as new research influences the design of products.
On the upside, IDSs detect an ever-growing number of serious problems. And as we 
learn more about problems, we can add their signatures to the IDS model. Thus, over 

time, IDSs continue to improve. At the same time, they are becoming cheaper and easier 

to administer.
On the downside, avoiding an IDS is a high priority for successful attackers. An IDS 
that is not well defended is useless. Fortunately, stealth mode IDSs are difficult even to 

find on an internal network, let alone to compromise.
IDSs look for known weaknesses, whether through patterns of known attacks or 
models of normal behavior. Similar IDSs may have identical vulnerabilities, and their 

selection criteria may miss similar attacks. Knowing how to evade a particular model 

of IDS is an important piece of intelligence passed within the attacker community. Of 

course, once manufacturers become aware of a shortcoming in their products, they try 

to fix it. Fortunately, commercial IDSs are pretty good at identifying attacks.
Another IDS limitation is its sensitivity, which is difficult to measure and adjust. 
IDSs will never be perfect, so finding the proper balance is critical.
A final limitation is not of IDSs per se, but is one of use. An IDS does not run itself; 
someone has to monitor its track record and respond to its alarms. An administrator is 

foolish to buy and install an IDS and then ignore it.
In general, IDSs are excellent additions to a network’s security. Firewalls block traf-
fic to particular ports or addresses; they also constrain certain protocols to limit their 

impact. But by definition, firewalls have to allow some traffic to enter a protected area. 

Watching what that traffic actually does inside the protected area is an IDS’s job, which 

it does quite well.