 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
389  Thus, users tended to use keys that were not really random. The situation is like ask-
ing very young children to pick a number between 1 and 100 and then trying to guess 

it. If you determine the children know only the numbers 1 through 10, your chance of 

guessing correctly improves from 1 in 100 to 1 in 10, even though the target space is 

still 1 to 100. Nonrandom distribution skews the chances of guessing correctly.
Static Key The WEP encryption key is shared between sender and receiver. This means that the 

same value has to be entered at both the access point and the remote device. Although 

users are occasionally willing to choose and enter a key both places, they do not want to 

do so frequently. Thus, the same encryption key tends to be used for a long time.
A dedicated attacker who can monitor a large amount of wireless network traffic 
will collect many data points from which to deduce a key. If the key changes frequently, 

data points from an old key provide no help in deducing a new key, but keys that are 

not changed frequently admit the possibility of deducing from the large number of data 

points. Thus, a key that is seldom changed increases the chance an attacker can deduce it.
Weak Encryption Process 
Even if the key is strong, it really has an effective length of only 40 or 104 bits because 

of the way it is used in the algorithm. A brute-force attack against a 40-bit key suc-

ceeds quickly. Even for the 104-bit version, flaws in the RC4 algorithm and its use (see 

[BOR01, FLU01, and ARB02]) defeat WEP security. Tools such as WEPCrack and 

AirCrack-ng allow an attacker to crack a WEP encryption, usually in a few minutes. At 

a 2005 conference, the FBI demonstrated the ease with which a WEP-secured wireless 

session can be broken.
Weak Encryption Algorithm 
The third problem with WEP is the way it performs encryption. WEP does not use 

RC4 as an encryption algorithm directly; instead, RC4 generates a long sequence of 

random numbers, called the key sequence, derived from the 24-bit initialization vector 

and the 40-bit key. WEP combines the key sequence with the data using an exclusive-

OR function. Unfortunately, if the attacker can guess the decrypted value of any single 

encrypted frame, feeding that value into the exclusive-OR function reveals that segment 

of the key sequence. The same key sequence is reused for all messages, so the segment 

will repeat at the same point. The IV is communicated as plaintext, so an attacker can 

intercept it for an exhaustive key search attack. Other known problems involve the use 

of an exclusive OR.
Initialization Vector Collisions 
A final encryption problem with WEP concerns the initialization vector, which becomes 

the first 24 bits of the encryption key. These 24 bits cycle in a predictable pattern until 

all 24-bit patterns have been used (approximately 16 million iterations), at which point 

the initialization vector reverts to the first value and the cycle begins again. At least that 

is the theory. In practice, certain initialization vector values get caught in the loop and 

never change, while others do not cycle through all 16 million 24-bit patterns. And the 

first few changes are not totally random but have some degree of predictability.
