176 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingTechnical Details: Malicious Code
The number of strains of malicious code is unknown. According to a testing service 
[AVC10], malicious code detectors (such as familiar antivirus tools) that look for mal-

ware “signatures” cover over 1 million definitions, although because of mutation, one 

strain may involve several definitions. Infection vectors include operating systems, 

document applications (primarily word processors and spreadsheets), media players, 

browsers, document-rendering engines (such as Adobe PDF reader) and photo-editing 

programs. Transmission media include documents, photographs, and music files, on 

networks, disks, flash media (such as USB memory devices), and even digital photo 

frames. Infections involving other programmable devices with embedded computers, 

such as mobile phones, automobiles, digital video recorders, and cash registers, are 

becoming targets for malicious code.
In this section we explore four aspects of malicious code infections: 
• harm—how they affect users and systems
• transmission and propagation
—how they are transmitted and replicate, and how 
they cause further transmission
• activation—how they gain control and install themselves so that they can 
reactivate
• stealth—how they hide to avoid detection
We begin our study of malware by looking at some aspects of harm caused by mali-
cious code.Harm from Malicious Code
Viruses and other malicious code can cause essentially unlimited harm. Because mal-
ware runs under the authority of the user, it can do anything the user can do. In this 

section we give some examples of harm malware can cause. Some examples are trivial, 

more in the vein of a comical prank. But other examples are deadly serious with obvi-

ous critical consequences.We can divide the payload from malicious code into three categories:
• Nondestructive.
 Examples of behavior are sending a funny message or flashing 
an image on the screen, often simply to show the author’s capability. This cat-

egory would also include 
virus hoaxes, messages falsely warning of a piece of 
malicious code, apparently to cause receivers to panic and forward the message 

to contacts, thus spreading the panic.• Destructive.
 This type of code corrupts files, deletes files, damages software, 
or executes commands to cause hardware stress or breakage with no apparent 

motive other than to harm the recipient.
• Commercial or criminal intent
. An infection of this type tries to take over the 
recipient’s computer, installing code to allow a remote agent to cause the com-

puter to perform actions on the agent’s signal or to forward sensitive data to the 

agent. Examples of actions include collecting personal data, for example, login 

credentials to a banking web site, collecting proprietary data, such as corporate 