622 Chapter 9  
PrivacySite and Portal RegistrationsMany sites require registration for use. The site asks for information from you in 
exchange for granting you access to the site’s information and services. Often the reg-

istration is free; you just choose a user ID and password. Newspapers and web portals 

(such as Yahoo! or MSN) are especially fond of this technique, and the explanation they 

give sounds soothing: They want to track your onsite behavior to enhance your brows-

ing experience (whatever 
that means) and be able to offer content to people with similar 
needs throughout the world. In reality, the sites want to obtain customer demographics, 

which they can then sell to marketers or show to advertisers to warrant their advertising.
People have trouble remembering numerous IDs, so they tend to default to simple 
ones, often using variations on their names. And because people have trouble remem-

bering IDs, the sites are making it easier: Many now ask you to use your email address 

as your ID. Not only do you sacrifice the privacy of your email address, you give the 

site your identifier, which is also your identifier to many other sites. The problem with 

using the same ID at many sites is that it now becomes a database key on which previ-

ously separate databases from different sites can be merged. Even worse, because the 

ID or email address is often closely related to the individual’s real name, this link also 

connects a person’s identity with the other collected data. So now, a data aggregator can 

infer that V. Putin browsed the 
New York Times
 website looking for articles on vodka 
and longevity and then bought 200 shares of stock in a Russian distillery.
You can, of course, try to remember many different IDs. Or you can choose a dis-
posable persona, register for a free email account under a name like xxxyyy, and never 

use the account for anything except these mandatory free registrations. And it often 

seems that when there is a need, there arises a service. See www.bugmenot.com for a 

service that will supply a random untraceable ID and password for sites that require a 

registration.
Whose Page Is This?The reason for registrations usually has little to do with the newspaper or the portal; it 

has to do with advertisers, the people who pay so the web content can be provided. The 

web offers much more detailed tracking possibilities than other media. Suppose you 

see a billboard for a candy bar in the morning and that same advertisement remains in 

your mind until lunch time; if you then buy that same candy bar at lunch, the advertiser 

is very happy: The advertising money has paid off. But the advertiser has no way to 

know whether you actually saw an ad (and if so which one). There are some coarse 

measures: If sales go up after an ad campaign, the campaign probably had some effect. 

But advertisers would really like a closer cause-and-effect relationship, one that is easy 

to implement on the web.
Third-Party Ads
You visit the Yahoo! Sports web page or app, and you might see advertisements for 
mortgages, banking, auto loans, and sports magazines, a cable television offer, and a 
