586In this chapter:•  Privacy as an aspect of security; confidentiality
•  Authentication effects on privacy

•  Privacy and the Internet
Computers did not invent or even cause privacy issues; we had those long before 

computers and probably even before written language. But computers’ high-

speed processing and data storage and transmission capabilities made possible both the data collection and correlation that affect privacy. Because privacy is part of 

confidentiality, it is an aspect of computer security.
Privacy is a human right, although people can legitimately disagree over when or 
to what extent privacy is deserved; this disagreement may have cultural, historical, or 

personal roots. Laws and ethics, which we study in Chapter 12, can set the baseline for 

and enforce expectations of privacy. And economics, which we address in Chapter 13, 

can determine how much privacy we are able or willing to provide. But at its root, the 

right to privacy depends on the situation in which privacy is desired, the ownership 

and persistence of data, and the legal rights and responsibilities of the affected parties. 

Moreover, just as confidentiality, integrity, and availability can conflict, so too can pri-

vacy and other aspects of security. We don’t take a position on when a right to privacy 

should be enforceable, because that is outside the scope of this book. You might charac-

terize the presentation of this chapter this way: “Assuming a particular right to privacy 

exists, what are its implications in computing and information technology?” As citizens, 

we help our policy-makers decide the contours of privacy rights; as computer security 

experts, we design and implement those decisions in computer systems.
Because privacy as a topic is broader than its implications for security, we restrict 
ourselves in this chapter only to those privacy issues inextricably linked to computer 

security. Thus, in this chapter we look at the meaning of information privacy. We revisit 

identification and authentication, two familiar aspects of computing that have signifi-

cant privacy implications. We study how privacy relates to the Internet, specifically in 

email and web access. Finally, we investigate some emerging computer-based technolo-

gies for which privacy is important.
9Privacy