534 Chapter 7  
DatabasesRandom Sample With 
random sample control, a result is not derived from the whole database; instead the 
result is computed on a random sample of the database. The sample chosen is large enough 

to be valid. Because the sample is not the whole database, a query against this sample will 

not necessarily match the result for the whole database. Thus, a result of 5 percent for a 

particular query means that 5 percent of the records chosen for the sample for this query 

had the desired property. You would expect that approximately 5 percent of the entire data-

base would have the property in question, but the actual percentage may be quite different.
So that averaging attacks from repeated, equivalent queries are prevented, the same 
sample set should be chosen for equivalent queries. In this way, all equivalent queries 

will produce the same result, although that result will be only an approximation for the 
entire database.ConcealmentAggregation need not directly threaten privacy. An aggregate (such as sum, median, or 
count) often depends on so many data items that the sensitivity of any single contrib-

uting item is hidden. Government statistics show this well: Census data, labor statis-

tics, and school results show trends and patterns for groups (such as a neighborhood or 

school district), but do not violate the privacy of any single person.
Blocking Small Sample Sizes Organizations that publish personal statistical data, such as the U.S. Census Bureau, 

do not reveal results when a small number of people make up a large proportion of a 

category. The rule of “
n items over 
k percent” means that data should be withheld if 
n items represent over 
k percent of the result reported. In the previous case, the one person 
selected represents 100 percent of the data reported, so there would be no ambiguity 

about which person matches the query.
As we explained, inference and aggregation attacks work better nearer the ends of the 
distribution. If very few or very many points are in a database subset, a small number of 

equations may disclose private data. The mean of one data value is that value exactly. 

With three data values, the means of each pair yield three equations in three unknowns, 

which you know can easily be solved with linear algebra. A similar approach works 

for very large subsets, such as (
n  3) values. Mid-sized subsets preserve privacy quite 
well. So privacy is maintained with the rule of 
n items, over 
k percent.Random Data Perturbation It is sometimes useful to perturb the values of the database by a small error. For each 
xi that is the true value of data item 
i in the database, we can generate a small random error 
term i and add it to 
xi for statistical results. The 
 values are both positive and negative, 
so some reported values will be slightly higher than their true values and other reported 

values will be lower. Statistical measures such as sum and mean will be close but not nec-

essarily exact. Data perturbation is easier to use than random sample selection because it 

is easier to store all the  values in order to produce the same result for equivalent queries.
Data perturbation works for aggregation, as well. With perturbation you add a small 
positive or negative error term to each data value. Agrawal and Srikant [AGR00] show 
