114 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
cannot be forged, and demonstrates authenticity. We want a means by which one party 
can sign something and, as on paper, have the signature remain valid for days, months, 

years—indefinitely. Furthermore, the signature must convince all who access the file. 

Of course, as with most conditions involving digital methods, the caveat is that the 

assurance is limited by the assumed skill and energy of anyone who would try to defeat 

the assurance.A digital signature often uses asymmetric or public key cryptography. As you just 
saw, a public key protocol is useful for exchange of cryptographic keys between two 

parties who have no other basis for trust. Unfortunately, the public key cryptographic 

protocols involve several sequences of messages and replies, which can be time con-

suming if either party is not immediately available to reply to the latest request. It would 

be useful to have a technique by which one party could reliably precompute some pro-

tocol steps and leave them in a safe place so that the protocol could be carried out even 

if only one party were active. This situation is similar to the difference between a bank 

teller and an ATM. You can obtain cash, make a deposit or payment, or check your 

balance because the bank has pre-established steps for an ATM to handle those simple 

activities 24 hours a day, even if the bank is not open. But if you need a certified check 

or foreign currency, you may need to interact directly with a bank agent. 
In this section we define digital signatures and compare their properties to those of 
handwritten signatures on paper. We then describe the infrastructure surrounding digital 

signatures that lets them be recognizable and valid indefinitely.
Components and Characteristics of Signatures
A digital signature is just a binary object associated with a file. But if we want that sig-
nature to have the force of a paper-based signature, we need to understand the properties 

of human signatures. Only then can we express requirements for our digital version.
Properties of Secure Paper-Based Signatures 
Consider a typical situation that parallels a common human need: an order to transfer 
funds from one person to another. In other words, we want to be able to send the elec-

tronic equivalent of a computerized check. We understand the properties of this transac-

tion for a conventional paper check:
• A check is a 
tangible object authorizing a financial transaction.
• The signature on the check 
confirms authenticity
 because (presumably) only the 
legitimate signer can produce that signature.
• In the case of an alleged forgery, a third party can be called in to 
judge 
authenticity.
• Once a check is cashed, it is canceled so that it 
cannot be reused.
• The paper check is 
not alterable. 
Or, most forms of alteration are easily detected.
Transacting business by check depends on 
tangible objects in a 
prescribed form.
 But 
tangible objects do not exist for transactions on computers. Therefore, authorizing pay-

ments by computer requires a different model. Let us consider the requirements of such 

a situation, from the standpoint both of a bank and of a user.
