 Section 11.4  Redress for Software Failures 
729  • What are the moral or ethical issues in finding, reporting, publicizing, and 
fixing flaws?
In some ways, the legal issues are evolving. Everyone acknowledges that all vendors 
should produce good software, but that does not always happen. The more difficult con-
cerns arise in the development and maintenance communities about what to do when 

faults are discovered.
Selling Correct Software
Software is a product. It is built with a purpose and an audience in mind, and it is pur-

chased by a consumer with an intended use in an expected context. And the consumer 

has some expectations of a reasonable level of quality and function. In that sense, buy-

ing software is like buying a radio. If you buy a faulty radio, you have certain legal 

rights relating to your purchase and you can enforce them in court if necessary. You may 

have three reactions if you find something wrong with the radio: You want your money 

back, you want a different (not faulty) radio, or you want someone to fix your radio. 

With software you have the same three possibilities, and we consider each one in turn.
To consider our alternatives with software, we must first investigate the nature of 
the faulty code. Why was the software bad? One possibility is that it was delivered on a 

defective medium. For example, the CD may have had a flaw and you could not load the 

software on your computer. In this case, almost any merchant will exchange the faulty 

copy with a new one with little argument.
The second possibility is that the software worked properly, but you didn’t like it 
when you tried it out. It may not have done all it was advertised to do. Or you didn’t 

like the “look and feel,” or it was slower than you expected it to be, or it worked only 

with European phone numbers, not the phone scheme in your country. The bottom line 

is that there was some attribute of the software that disappointed you, and you do not 

want this software.
The final possibility is that the software malfunctions, so you cannot use it with your 
computer system. Here, too, you do not want the software and hope to return it.
I Want a Refund
If the item were a radio, you would have the opportunity to look at it and listen to it in 
the shop, to assess its sound quality, measure its size (if it is to fit in a particular space), 

and inspect it for flaws. Do you have that opportunity with a program? Probably not.
The U.S. Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) governs transactions between buyers 
and sellers in the United States. Section 2-601 says that “if the goods or the tender of 
delivery fail in any respect to conform to the contract, the buyer may reject them.” You 

may have had no opportunity to try out the software before purchase, particularly on 

your computer. Your inspection often could not occur in the store (stores tend to frown 

on your bringing your own computer, opening their shrink-wrapped software, install-

ing the software on your machine, and checking the features). Even if you could have 

tried the software in the store (on the store’s computer), you may not have been able 

to assess how it works with the other applications with which it must interface. So you 
