 Section 6.8  Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems 
477  some implementations of the protocol stack fail if they receive an ICMP packet with 
a data length of 65535 bytes, so such a packet would be a pattern for which to watch.
The problem with signature-based detection is the signatures themselves. An attacker 
will try to modify a basic attack in such a way that it will not match the known signature 

of that attack. For example, the attacker may convert lowercase to uppercase letters or 

convert a symbol such as “blank space” to its character code equivalent %20. The IDS 

must necessarily work from a canonical form of the data stream to recognize that %20 

matches a pattern with a blank space. The attacker may insert spurious packets that the 

IDS will see, or shuffle the order of reconnaissance probes, to intentionally cause a 

pattern mismatch. Each of these variations could be detected by an IDS, but more signa-

tures require additional work for the IDS, thereby reducing performance.
Of course, a signature-based IDS cannot detect a new attack for which no signature 
has yet been installed in the database. Every attack type starts as a new pattern at some 

time, and the IDS is helpless to warn of its existence. Attackers also try to change their 

signature.Signature-based intrusion detection systems tend to use statistical analysis. This 
approach uses tools both to obtain sample measurements of key indicators (such as 

amount of external activity, number 

of active processes, number of trans-

actions) and to determine whether 

the collected measurements fit the 

predetermined attack signatures.Ideally, signatures should match every instance of an attack, match subtle variations 
of the attack, but not match traffic that is not part of an attack. However, this goal is 

grand but unreachable.
Signature-based intrusion detection works well on certain types of denial-of-service 
attacks. For example, ping and echo-chargen attacks are relatively easy to spot from 

their distinctive packet types. On the other hand, some attacks are hard for an intrusion 

detection system to identify. Because a teardrop attack depends on many packets that 

do not fit together properly, an IDS can notice that attack only after collecting infor-

mation about all or a significant number of the packet fragments. And because packet 

fragmentation is a characteristic of most traffic, the IDS would need to maintain data 

on virtually all traffic, a task that would be prohibitive. Similarly, a SYN flood is recog-

nized only by a profusion of unmatched SYN–ACK responses; but because SYN–ACK 

is part of the three-way TCP handshake, it is a part of every communication session 

established, which makes it difficult for the IDS to classify the behavior as an attack.
Heuristic Intrusion DetectionBecause signatures are limited to specific, known attack patterns, another form of intru-
sion detection becomes useful. Instead of looking for matches, heuristic intrusion detec-

tion looks for behavior that is out of the ordinary. The original work in this area (for 

example, [TEN90]) focused on the individual, trying to find characteristics of that per-

son that might be helpful in understanding normal and abnormal behavior. For example, 

one user might always start the day by reading email, write many documents using a 

word processor, and occasionally back up files. These actions would be normal. This 
Signature-based IDSs are limited to 

known patterns.
