 Section 2.4  Exercises 
129  11. Outline the design of an authentication scheme that “learns.” The authentication scheme 
would start with certain primitive information about a user, such as name and password. As 

the use of the computing system continued, the authentication system would gather such 

information as commonly used programming languages; dates, times, and lengths of comput-

ing sessions; and use of distinctive resources. The authentication challenges would become 

more individualized as the system learned more information about the user.
• Your design should include a list of many pieces of information about a user that the 

system could collect. It is permissible for the system to ask an authenticated user for 
certain additional information, such as a favorite book, to use in subsequent challenges.
• Your design should also consider the problem of presenting and validating these chal-

lenges: Does the would-be user answer a true-false or a multiple-choice question? 

Does the system interpret natural language prose?12. How are passwords stored on your personal computer?
13. Describe a situation in which a weak but easy-to-use password may be adequate.
14. List three authentication questions (but not the answers) your credit card company could 
ask to authenticate you over the phone. Your questions should be ones to which an imposter 

could not readily obtain the answers. How difficult would it be for you to provide the correct 

answer (for example, you would have to look something up or you would have to do a quick 

arithmetical calculation)? 15. If you forget your password for a website and you click [Forgot my password], sometimes 
the company sends you a new password by email but sometimes it sends you your old pass-

word by email. Compare these two cases in terms of vulnerability of the website owner.
16. Defeating authentication follows the method–opportunity–motive paradigm described in 
Chapter 1. Discuss how these three factors apply to an attack on authentication.
17. Suggest a source of some very long unpredictable numbers. Your source must be something 
that both the sender and receiver can readily access but that is not obvious to outsiders and 

not transmitted directly from sender to receiver.
18. What are the risks of having the United States government select a cryptosystem for wide-
spread commercial use (both inside and outside the United States). How could users from 

outside the United States overcome some or all of these risks?
19. If the useful life of DES was about 20 years (1977–1999), how long do you predict the useful 
life of AES will be? Justify your answer.
20. Humans are said to be the weakest link in any security system. Give an example for each of 
the following:
(a) a situation in which human failure could lead to a compromise of encrypted data
(b) a situation in which human failure could lead to a compromise of identification and 
authentication(c) a situation in which human failure could lead to a compromise of access control
21. Why do cryptologists recommend changing the encryption key from time to time? Is it the 
same reason security experts recommend changing a password from time to time? How can 

one determine how frequently to change keys or passwords?
22. Explain why hash collisions occur. That is, why must there always be two different plaintexts 
that have the same hash value?
