848 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
What Are Appropriate Reactions to Cyber War?
Both Estonia’s Ekelan Tikk and Prescott Winter, a former CIO and CTO at the U.S. 
National Security Agency, suggest that governments and companies should prepare for 

coordinated attacks. However, they note that it is difficult to prepare for cyber war, 

because there are few precedents. “Governments know how to negotiate treaties and 

engage in diplomacy to head off conventional wars, but no one really knows how a 

confrontation between nations would escalate into a cyberwar,” Winter said. “There’s a 

whole dance that nations go through before a traditional war, and diplomacy can often 

avert conflict . . . That doesn’t really exist yet in the cyberdomain.” [GRO10]
Winter emphasized that nations do not yet have rules of engagement for cyber war, 
including how to use private-sector networks to reroute traffic and shut down attacks. 

Tikk urges governments to develop cyber war policies, leveraging cooperation between 

nations. This kind of cooperation is one of the outcomes of joint cyber security exer-

cises [GRO10].
Some governments are considering increased monitoring of activities on the cyber 
infrastructure, as a way of watching for unwelcome behavior. But civil liberties organi-

zations are urging care in implementing monitoring, as we discuss in Chapter 9.
Other Policy, Ethical, and Legal Issues
Myriad policy, ethical, and legal issues must be addressed if cyber warfare is to be a 
viable strategy. We consider several here.
Does a “Kill Switch” Make Sense?There have been movements worldwide to implement a variety of kill switches in the 

cyber infrastructure. For example, in the commercial world, Australia has implemented 

a voluntary code of practice for Australian ISPs. Known as the iCode, it contains four 

key provisions:
• A notification and management system for compromised computers 
• A standardized information resource for end users

• A source of the latest threat information for ISPs

• In cases of “extreme threat,” a way for affected parties to report to CERT  
Australia, facilitating both a national high-level view of an attack’s status and 

coordination of private and public responses.
Included in the extreme threat response is the ability for ISPs to shut down parts 
of the infrastructure: a kill switch, although this approach would be accomplished by 

human network engineers, not an electronic signal.
Similarly, in the United States, a bill called “Protecting Cyberspace as a National 
Asset (S3480)” was introduced in Congress in 2010. Nicknamed the “Kill Switch Bill,” 

it contained a provision that would grant the “president power to act [if] a cyber attack 

threatens to cause more than $25 billion in damages in a year, to kill more than 2,500 

people or to force mass evacuations. The president would have the ability to pinpoint 

what to clamp down on without causing economic damage to U.S. interests, for any-

where from 30 to 120 days with the approval of Congress.” Although S3480 did not 
