 Section 6.3  Wireless Network Security 
377  code, or MAC
. (MAC addresses are 
supposed to be fixed and unique, but as we describe 
later in this chapter, MAC addresses can be changed.) For a view of misuse of MAC 

addresses for authentication, see Sidebar 6-9.WiFi Access RangeDistance is an important consideration with WiFi, but it is hard to state precisely. Wire-
less signals degrade because of interference from intervening objects, such as walls, 

machinery, and trees, as well as distance; a receiver will not establish, or may drop, a 

connection with a poor signal, one that is weak or has lost a lot of data. Outdoor signals, 
with fewer objects to interfere, generally travel longer distances than indoor signals. 
From 01af3c4c8a21Remote network
Local stationNICMAC Addr 01af3c4c8a21
AccessPointFIGURE 6-15 Local Station Communicating with Remote Network
SIDEBAR 6-9  
Using MAC Address for Authentication 
[Bad Idea]In what we hope is a spoof, a posting allegedly from the IT services depart-
ment of Harvard University indicated that Harvard would begin to use MAC 

addresses for authentication. (http://video2.harvard.edu/wireless/Wireless_

Registration_Procedure_072910.pdf). The announcement stated that after 

registering with Harvard network services, students’ machines would be 

recognized by MAC address and the students would no longer need to 

enter a Harvard ID and PIN to access the Harvard wireless network.
The posting was on an obscure Harvard web server, not the main IT 
services page, and seemingly no mention of it was made elsewhere on the 

Harvard website.
As we have just reported, a moderately skilled network programmer 
can change the MAC address, and a program called a sniffer reports the 

MAC address of devices participating in a wireless network. Thus, anyone 

who wanted to use the Harvard WiFi network could easily gain authenti-

cated access by sniffing the MAC address from an ongoing session and 

setting a NIC card to present that address.
Perhaps this website was a joke from Harvard’s nearby rival, M.I.T.?
