814 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
far more difficult than building in security from the beginning. In other words, past 
experience with securing emerging technologies does not inspire confidence. We hope 

this pattern will change, and that you, as current and future security professionals, can 
work to see that security is addressed as technology evolves.
13.1 THE INTERNET OF THINGS
The Internet of things
 refers to the connection of everyday devices to the Internet, 
making a world of so-called smart devices. The cost of processors is low, and engineers 

envision being able to offer new 

products and services by embed-

ding these processors in everyday 

devices. Consider these possibilities 

for Internet-enabled products:• smart appliances. Your refrigerator can sense when you are running low on milk 
and add that to your electronic shopping list. Your dishwasher chooses a time to 

run when electrical demand is low, for example, in the middle of the night, to 

shift use away from times of peak demand.
• smart home. Your home security system reports to you when it senses an intru-
sion or anomaly. Your heating system coordinates with your calendar to reduce 

your thermostat when your calendar says you will be away.
• smart health. Your exercise monitor interacts with your treadmill to make your 
workouts more strenuous as your physical condition improves. Your glucose 

monitor sends reports to your doctor.
• smart transportation
. Cars, trains, buses, and airplanes operate without human 
drivers, sensing adverse traffic conditions and rerouting public transportation 

(while simultaneously sending reports to waiting passengers advising them of 

revised arrival times and alternative pickup points). 
• smart entertainment
. Your video recorder predicts and records programs you 
will (or are likely to) want to watch. Your virtual concierge books tickets (and 

arranges a date for you) to attend a performance it infers you will like.
• smart computer. Your computer manages local and Internet-based data stor-
age to optimize retrieval time and use of local resources. Your computer uses 

spare execution cycles to contribute to solving computation-intensive problems 

throughout the world.
Each of these applications seems to be a noble activity that at least some users would 
embrace. But with your security hat on, you might detect a negative side to each, for 

example:
• loss of privacy.
 Learning that you are not exercising as frequently or vigorously 
as it would like, your insurance company raises your premium.
• loss of control.
 You keep sensitive data on your computer. Your agreement for 
automatic backups initially involves only domestic storage of your data, but the 
Internet of Things: A world of 

interconnected smart devices not 

ordinarily thought of as computers.
