646 Chapter 9  
Privacydata by rogue receivers surreptitiously planted around the university campus. Which rogue 
accesses threaten personal privacy? In what ways? What is the degree of harm?
2. You have been asked to perform a similar exercise for a secret government organization. List 
overt and covert uses of the card, list data that need to be broadcast, and identify potential 

misuses of the data.3. If you were supplying electronic voting machines for an election, what could you do to vio-
late individuals’ privacy rights? That is, suggest some not readily apparent ways you could 

rig the machines to make it possible to determine after the election who had voted for which 

candidates.4. Suppose a telephone company maintained records on every telephone call it handled, show-
ing the calling phone number, the called phone number, and the time, date, and duration of 

the call. What uses might the telephone company make of those records? What uses might 

commercial marketers make? What uses might a rival telephone company make? What uses 

might a government make? Which of those uses violate individuals’ privacy rights?
5. Refer to the results of Turow’s survey on shopping on the Internet in Section 9.5. Many 
people thought certain common practices of Internet commerce were illegal. Should a law be 

passed to make those illegal? Why or why not?
6. Discuss the algebra of authentication and its implications for privacy. That is, assume a situ-
ation with two-factor authentication, and call the factors A and B. Consider the four cases in 

which each one is strong or weak. What conclusions would you draw about the results: weak 

A and weak B; weak A and strong B; strong A and weak B; strong A and strong B? Does 

order matter? Does it matter if both factors are of the same type (what you know, what you 

have, what you are)? What happens if you add a third factor, C?
7. You have forgotten your password, so you click on “forgot my password” to have a new 
password sent by email. Sometimes the site tells you what your password was; other times, 

it sends you a new (usually temporary) password. What are the privacy implications of each 

approach?8. Present arguments for and against having a so-called aging function for personal Internet 
data. That is, some postings might be automatic
ally removed after one month, others after 
one year, others after one decade. Is this a feasible way to ensure privacy? Why or why not?
9. Is it ethical for a school to make videos of students using school-provided computers outside 
of class? What ethical principles would justify such monitoring? Would the school be simi-

larly justified in recording all web behavior? All keystrokes? Support your arguments with 

ethical principles, not just personal opinion.10. Describe a situation in which the source of information is more sensitive than the information 
itself. Explain why the sum of sensitive data might also be sensitive.
11. Suggest a design for a filter that would distinguish queries revealing sensitive data about the 
inquirer from those that do not reveal anything. What qualities might indicate that a query 

was sensitive?
12. Find three websites that publish their privacy policies. Compare their policies. Which offers 
the most privacy, and under what circumstances? Which offers the least? How can privacy be 

improved at each site? How can you tell that the stated privacy policy has been implemented 

completely and correctly?13. Is legal protection an effective countermeasure for privacy intrusion? Explain the difficulties 
or efficacy of using the law to provide privacy protection.
