 Section 9.7  Privacy Impacts of Emerging Technologies 
639  animals to cross quarantine borders or to uniquely identify animals such as pets or valu-
able racehorses.In these examples, individuals voluntarily allow the tags to be implanted. But remem-
ber that once the tags are implanted, they will respond to any appropriate receiver, so 

our example of privacy intrusions while walking down the street still holds.
RFID advocates hasten to point out that the technology does not currently permit 
reading the simplest tags at a distance and that receivers are so expensive that it would 

be prohibitive to build a network capable of tracking someone’s every movement. As 

we point out in our discussion of cryptography and reiterate in our presentation about 
security software, you should not base your security just on what is technically possible 

or economically feasible today.
Security and Privacy IssuesWe have already described two of RFID’s major privacy issues: the ability to track indi-
viduals wherever they go and the ability to discern sensitive data about people. There 

are other related issues, including correctness and prediction. To see why correctness 

is an issue, consider how the reading sensor may malfunction or the software process-

ing IDs may fail; both cases could lead to mistaken identity. How do you challenge the 

accusation that you were not someplace when the receiver shows you were? Another 

possible failure is forgery of an RFID tag. Here again the sensor would pick up a read-

ing of a tag associated with you. The only way you could prove you were not near the 

sensor is to have an alibi supporting where you actually were.
Similarly, as Sidebar 9-8 illustrates, the data collected about you can be used to make 
predictions that may not be correct. And even when they are correct, you may want to 

have a say in decisions being made about you based on predictions from data captured 

by sensors.SIDEBAR 9-8 Using Your Habits to Protect and Predict
As prices of sensors plummet and as their size makes them easy to embed, manufacturers are putting sensors in everything. “Pervasive computing” 

and “wearable computing” can make life simpler, by enabling you to navi-

gate, troubleshoot, and track people and things in ways not possible only 

a few decades ago. Taub [TAU14] notes that items like smartbands and 

smart watches can monitor your vital signs and activities. Smart pumps 

can automatically give you a dose of insulin or painkiller when you need 

it. “In the name of living healthier lives, sensors may soon give us updates 
on the whole family, and across the house—from the bathroom sink to the  

garage.”Companies like Grush offer a smart toothbrush containing accelerom-
eters and gyroscopes, to give your youngster feedback on whether she is 

holding it correctly and brushing properly. And the results can be transmit-

ted to the dentist, so that she can monitor the brushing behavior, too.
(continues)