552 Chapter 8  
Cloud Computing• Rapid elasticity
. Services can quickly and automatically be scaled up or down 
to meet a customer’s need. To the customer, the system’s capabilities appear to 

be unlimited.• Measured service
. Like water, gas, or telephone service, use of cloud services 
and resources can be monitored, controlled, and reported to both provider and 

customer.
Service ModelsA cloud can be configured in many ways, but there are three basic models with which clouds 

provide services (Figure 8-1). In the first, called 
software as a service
 (SaaS), the cloud 
provider gives a customer access to applications running in the cloud. Here, the customer 

has no control over the infrastruc-

ture or even most of the application 

capabilities; like renting and driving 

an automobile, the customer accesses 

and uses the application.In the second service model, called platform as a service
 (PaaS), the customer has 
his or her own applications, but the cloud affords the languages and tools for creat-

ing them. Again, the customer has 

no control over the infrastructure 

that underlies the tools but may 

have some say in infrastructure 

configuration.
In the third service model, called infrastructure as a service
 (IaaS), the cloud offers processing, storage, networks, and 
other computing resources that enable customers to run any kind of software. Here, 

customers can request operating 

systems, storage, some applications, 
and some network components.
Deployment ModelsThere are many different definitions of clouds, and many ways of describing how 

clouds are deployed. Often, four basic offerings are described by cloud providers: pri-

vate clouds, community clouds, public clouds, and hybrid clouds.
A private cloud
 has infrastructure that is operated exclusively by and for the orga-
nization that owns it, but cloud management may be contracted out to a third party. A 

community cloud is shared by several organizations and is usually intended to accom-
plish a shared goal. For instance, collaborators in a community cloud must agree on 

its security requirements, policies, 

and mission. It, too, may farm out 

cloud management to another orga-

nization. A public cloud, available 
to the general public, is owned by 

an organization that sells cloud 
Software as a service: applications in 

the cloudPlatform as a service: languages and 

tools to support application development 

in the cloudInfrastructure as a service: processing, 

storage, network components in the 
cloudCloud computing implies export of 
processor, storage, applications, or other 

resources. Sharing resources increases 

security risk.