 Section 12.5  Digital Signatures 
805  The NSA participates in this game, but some people are distrustful of its motives. 
In this section we address some of the cryptological issues in which NSA is involved. 

These issues have both political and technical dimensions, and it is because of the tech-

nical attributes that we discuss them here.
The Role of NSAAs you have seen throughout this chapter, cryptologists have often questioned the 
unseen hand of government, especially the NSA, in cryptographic processes. NSA has 

three roles related to cryptography: • First, it develops codes and ciphers for U.S. military and diplomatic uses. These 
techniques are seldom publicized.• Second, NSA supports NIST on matters of cryptography for public citizens and 
businesses, as well as other government agencies. This support includes ana-

lyzing and sometimes participating in the development of such public crypto-

graphic tools and techniques.• Finally, NSA performs what it calls its signals intelligence mission: it “collects, 
processes, and disseminates intelligence information from foreign signals for 

intelligence and counterintelligence purposes and to support military opera-

tions” [from the NSA web site].On the one hand, NSA wants to promote and ensure secure encryption systems for 
U.S. citizens and businesses. However it doesn’t want those systems to be 
too secure; 
otherwise, they may complicate the signals intelligence mission. People suspect the 

intelligence mission caused NSA to weaken cryptography.
The fear surfaced during the design of DES in the 1970s. At that time NSA made 
some unexplained minor changes to the algorithm, so outsiders naturally assumed NSA 

had weakened the algorithm for its own purposes. In fact, as later emerged when Biham 

and Shamir developed differential cryptanalysis (or rather, unknowingly reinvented it, 

because NSA had invented it almost twenty years previously), the role of NSA was 

probably to strengthen the algorithm, not weaken it.
A more obvious weakening effect occurred during the 1990s when NSA managed to 
restrict export of most cryptographic hardware and software to products using a 40-bit 

or shorter key. People could calculate the effort for a brute-force key attack and con-

cluded that such short keys were chosen to support the signals intelligence mission.
Suspicion of NSA’s motives and practices also became apparent because of a cryp-
tographic chip called Clipper, developed under NSA oversight in the 1990s. In that 

program, strong (that is, long key length) cryptography could be implemented on a chip 

that permitted so-called key recovery; the chips could even be exported. Basically, a 

copy of every encryption key used would be stored (escrowed) with two government 

agencies (each getting half of the key), and the government could retrieve those keys 

with a court order. Public skepticism ran high, and this program was finally scuttled.
