 Section 1.2  Threats 
19  Washington University, warning of “multinational groups of hackers backed by organized 
crime” and showing the sophistication of prohibition-era mobsters. He also reports that 

Christopher Painter, deputy director of the U.S. Department of Justice’s computer crime 

section, argues that cyber criminals and serious fraud artists are increasingly working in 

concert or are one and the same. According to Painter, loosely connected groups of crimi-

nals all over the world work together to break into systems and steal and sell information, 

such as credit card numbers. For instance, in October 2004, U.S. and Canadian authorities 

arrested 28 people from 6 countries involved in an international, organized cybercrime 

ring to buy and sell credit card information and identities.
Whereas early motives for computer attackers such as Morris and Mitnick were per-
sonal, such as prestige or accomplishment, recent attacks have been heavily influenced 

by financial gain. Security firm McAfee reports “Criminals have realized the huge 

financial gains to be made from the Internet with little risk. They bring the skills, knowl-

edge, and connections needed for large scale, high-value criminal enterprise that, when 

combined with computer skills, expand the scope and risk of cybercrime.” [MCA05]
Organized CrimeAttackers’ goals include fraud, extortion, money laundering, and drug trafficking, areas 
in which organized crime has a well-established presence. Evidence is growing that 

organized crime groups are engaging in computer crime. In fact, traditional criminals 

are recruiting hackers to join the lucrative world of cybercrime. For example, Albert 

Gonzales was sentenced in March 2010 to 20 years in prison for working with a crime 

ring to steal 40 million credit card numbers from retailer TJMaxx and others, costing 

over $200 million (
Reuters
, 26 March 2010).Organized crime may use computer crime (such as stealing credit card numbers or 
bank account details) to finance other aspects of crime. Recent attacks suggest that 

professional criminals have discovered just how lucrative computer crime can be. Mike 

Danseglio, a security project manager with Microsoft, said, “In 2006, the attackers want 

to pay the rent. They don’t want to write a worm that destroys your hardware. They 

want to assimilate your computers and use them to make money.” [NAR06a] Mikko 

Hyppönen, Chief Research Officer with Finnish security company f-Secure, agrees that 

today’s attacks often come from Russia, Asia, and Brazil; the motive is now profit, 

not fame [BRA06]. Ken Dunham, Director of the Rapid Response Team for VeriSign 

says he is “convinced that groups of 

well-organized mobsters have taken 

control of a global billion-dollar 

crime network powered by skillful 

hackers.” [NAR06b]
McAfee also describes the case of a hacker-for-hire: a businessman who hired a 
16-year-old New Jersey hacker to attack the websites of his competitors. The hacker 

barraged the site for a five-month period and damaged not only the target companies 

but also their Internet service providers (ISPs) and other unrelated companies that used 

the same ISPs. By FBI estimates, the attacks cost all the companies over $2 million; the 

FBI arrested both hacker and businessman in March 2005 [MCA05].
Brian Snow [SNO05] observes that hackers want a score or some kind of evidence 
to give them bragging rights. Organized crime wants a resource; such criminals want to 
Organized crime groups are discovering 

that computer crime can be lucrative.