706 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicso’ the mornin’ to ye,” or the song “Happy Birthday to You,” or a recipe for tuna noodle 
casserole, are also so widely known that it would be virtually impossible for someone to 

trace originality and claim a copyright. Finally, copyright lasts for only a limited period 

of time, so certain very old works, such as the plays of Shakespeare or novels of Dick-

ens, are in the public domain, their possibility of copyright having expired.
1The copyrighted expression must also be in some tangible medium. A story or art 
work must be written, printed, painted, recorded (on a physical medium such as a plas-

tic record), stored on a magnetic medium (such as a disk or tape), or fixed in some other 

way. Furthermore, the purpose of the copyright is to promote distribution of the work; 

therefore, the work must be distributed, even if a fee is charged for a copy.
Originality of Work
The work being copyrighted must be original to the author. As noted previously, some 
expressions in the public domain are not subject to copyright. A work can be copy-

righted even if it contains some public domain material, as long as there is some origi-

nality, too. The author does not even have to identify what is public and what is original.
For example, a music historian could copyright a collection of folk songs even if 
some or all are in the public domain. To be subject to copyright, something in or 
about the collection has to be original. The historian might argue that collecting the songs, 

selecting which ones to include, and putting them in order was the original part. Or if 

the historian wrote about the significance of each, that analysis would be original. In 

this case, the copyright law would not protect the folk songs (which would be in the 

public domain) but would instead protect that specific selection and organization or 

description. Someone selling a sheet of paper on which just one of the songs was writ-

ten would likely not be found to have infringed on the copyright of the historian. Dic-

tionaries can be copyrighted in this way, too; the authors do not claim to own the words, 

just their expression in a particular dictionary.
Fair Use of MaterialThe copyright law indicates that the copyrighted object is subject to 
fair use. A pur-
chaser has the right to use the product in the manner for which it was intended and 

in a way that does not interfere with the author’s rights. Specifically, the law allows 

“fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by reproduction in copies . . . for 
purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple cop-

ies for classroom use), scholarship or research.” The purpose and effect of the use on 

the potential market for or the value of the work affect the decision of what constitutes 

fair use. For example, fair use allows making a backup copy of copyrighted software 

you acquired legally: Your backup copy protects your use against system failures but 

it doesn’t affect the author because 

you have no need for nor do you 

want use of two copies at once. The 

copyright law usually upholds the 
1. We intentionally avoid saying how long copyright lasts because it varies by country and, in the United 
States, Congress keeps extending the period.
Fair use allows copies for scholarship and research.
