 Section 6.11  Exercises 
497  3. Telecommunications network providers and users are concerned about the single point of 
failure in “the last mile,” which is the single cable from the network provider’s last switching 

station to the customer’s premises. How can a customer protect against that single point of 

failure? Comment on whether your approach presents a good cost-benefit trade-off.
4. You are designing a business in which you will host companies’ websites. What issues can 
you see as single points of failure? List the resources that could be involved. State ways to 

overcome each resource’s being a single point of failure.
5. The human body exhibits remarkable resilience. State three examples in which the body 
compensates for failure of single body parts.
6. How can hardware be designed for fault tolerance? Are these methods applicable to soft-
ware? Why or why not?
7. The old human telephone “switches” were quaint but very slow. You would signal the opera-
tor and say you wanted to speak to Jill, but the operator, knowing Jill was visiting Sally, 

would connect you there. Other than slowness or inefficiency, what are two other disadvan-

tages of this scheme?8. An (analog) telephone call is “circuit based,” meaning that the system chooses a wire path 
from sender to receiver and that path or circuit is dedicated to the call until it is complete. 

What are two disadvantages of circuit switching?
9. The OSI model is inefficient; each layer must take the work of higher layers, add some result, 
and pass the work to lower layers. This process ends with the equivalent of a gift inside seven 

nested boxes, each one wrapped and sealed. Surely this wrapping (and unwrapping) is inef-

ficient. (Proof of this slowness is that the protocols that implement the Internet—TCP, UDP, 

and IP—are represented by a four-layer architecture.) From reading earlier chapters of this 

book, cite a security advantage of the layered approach.
10. Obviously, the physical layer has to be at the bottom of the OSI stack, with applications at the 
top. Justify the order of the other five layers as moving from low to high abstraction.
11. List the major security issues dealt with at each level of the OSI protocol stack.
12. What security advantage occurs from a packet’s containing the source NIC address and not 
just the destination NIC address?13. TCP is a robust protocol: Sequencing and error correction are ensured, but there is a penalty 
in overhead (for example, if no resequencing or error correction is needed). UDP does not 

provide these services but is correspondingly simpler. Cite specific situations in which the 

lightweight UDP protocol could be acceptable, that is, when error correction or sequencing 
is not needed.14. Assume no FTP protocol exists. You are asked to define a function analogous to the FTP 
PUT for exchange of files. List three security features or mechanisms you would include in 

your protocol.15. A 32-bit IP addressing scheme affords approximately 4 billion addresses. Compare this num-
ber to the world’s population. Every additional bit doubles the number of potential addresses. 

Although 32 bits is becoming too small, 128 bits seems excessive, even allowing for signifi-

cant growth. But not all bits have to be dedicated to specifying an address. Cite a security use 

for a few bits in an address.
16. When a new domain is created, for example, yourdomain.com, a table in the .com domain 
has to receive an entry for yourdomain. What security attack might someone try against the 

registrar of .com (the administrator of the .com table) during the creation of yourdomain.com?
