596 Chapter 9  
Privacymorning and checked your email, you’re leaving a trail of digital crumbs. People who 
have access to this information—companies powering your emails and Web searches, 

advertisers who are strategically directing ads at you—can build a picture of who you 

are, what you like, and what you will probably do next . . . Federal agents and other 
operatives may use this data, too.”
Hardy [HAR14] reports that some companies are building these pictures of you, 
without your knowledge or consent: “one bit here and another there, both innocuous, 

may reveal something personal that is hidden perhaps even from myself.” He quotes 

Vivek Wadhwa, a tech entrepreneur and social critic: “Big Brother couldn’t have imag-

ined we’d tell him where we were, who we talk to, how we feel—and we’d pay to do it.”
In some countries, such as those in the European Union, you own your data and 
must give permission before it can be used in a variety of ways. But in other countries, 

such as the United States, the data’s holder is the owner—one reason why letting copies 

escape to someone or somewhere else is a problem. But even if laws changed to enable 

each of us to own our data, what then? How many of us want to spend much of our day 

giving permission to traffic cameras, websites, and email providers to use our data?
These issues—data collection, notice and consent, and control and ownership of 
data—have significant privacy implications. One way we address these kinds of issues is 

with policies: written statements of practice that inform all affected parties of their rights 

and responsibilities. In the next section we investigate privacy policies for computing.
9.2 PRIVACY PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES
In the United States, interest in electronic privacy and computer databases dates at least 

to the early 1970s.1 Public concern for privacy has varied over the years. In the early 
1970s, a federal government-sponsored committee developed a set of privacy princi-

ples, called the Fair Information Practices, that not only have affected U.S. laws and 

regulations but also laid the groundwork for privacy legislation in other countries. 
Fair Information PracticesIn 1973 Willis Ware of the RAND Corporation chaired a committee to advise the Sec-

retary of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (now called Health and 

Human Services) on privacy issues. The report (summarized in [WAR73a]) proposes a 

set of principles based on fair information practice:
• Collection limitation. Data should be obtained lawfully and fairly.
• Data quality. Data should be relevant to their purposes, accurate, complete, and 
up to date.• Purpose specification
. The purposes for which data will be used should be iden-
tified and the data destroyed if no longer necessary to serve that purpose.
1. It is worth noting that the U.S. Watergate burglary occurred in 1972. Shortly after, reports surfaced that 
President Nixon maintained an enemies list and had used Internal Revenue Service (tax) records as a tool 

in combating adversaries. Consequently, people in the United States were sensitive about their privacy 

during that time because the issue remained prominently in the news until Nixon’s resignation in 1974.
