394 Chapter 6  
NetworksAttacks on WPA 
Shortly after the appearance of the WPA protocol suite, researchers found and 
described flaws.
Man-in-the-Middle Mishra and Arbaugh [MIS02] identified two potential flaws in the design of WPA pro-

tocols. The first of these, called a man-in-the-middle attack (we showed other examples 

of in-the-middle attacks in Chapter 4), is exploited when a clever attacker can intrude 

in a legitimate conversation, intercepting and perhaps changing both sides, in order to 

surreptitiously obtain or modify protected data. The attack of Mishra and Arbaugh uses 

a malicious man in the middle to hijack a session, that is, for an outsider to replace a 
legitimate user and carry on that session in the authority of the user.
The attack succeeds by means of a MAC address spoofing attack. During the associ-
ation sequence between a device and an access point, the device presents credentials to 

authenticate and the access point sends a message confirming the authentication. At that 

point, the malicious man in the middle changes its MAC address to that of the access 

point and sends the device a request to disassociate. Disassociation is a means for either 

party to terminate an association and can happen because of completion of activity, 

overloading, or some other reason. The requesting device ceases the association and 

begins again the process of associating; meanwhile, the malicious outsider has changed 

the MAC address to that of the disassociated device and continues the association with 

the access point as if it were the original user.
The problem permitting this attack is that frames lack integrity protection; therefore, 
the disassociate message from a rogue host is not identified as being inauthentic.
Incomplete Authentication The second attack against WPA pinpoints a related weakness in the authentication 

sequence.SIDEBAR 6-15 WPA Replacing WEP
Since its introduction in 2004, WPA has been steadily growing in usage. In 
2008, the Hong Kong Professional Information Security Association con-

ducted a survey by war-driving, monitoring, and cataloging access points 

that could be found. They determined that, of the over 10,000 access 

points identified in Hong Kong and Macau, 43 percent were using WEP and 

40 percent WPA.
RSA Security performed a survey, also in 2008, of major business 
centers. They found WPA or WPA2 usage at 49 percent (of access points 

surveyed) in New York City, 71 percent in Paris, and 48 percent in London.
Although the percentage of WPA use continues to grow throughout 
the world, the rate of adoption is remarkably small, considering the major 

security advantages of WPA over WEP (or, worse, over no security at all).
