86 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
get complicated when an ordinary user becomes an administrator or a baker moves to 
the candlestick makers’ group. 
Role-based access control
 lets us associate privileges 
with groups, such as all administrators can do this or candlestick makers are forbidden 

to do that. Administering security is easier if we can control access by job demands, not 

by person. Access control keeps up with a person who changes responsibilities, and the 

system administrator does not have 

to choose the appropriate access 

control settings for someone. For 

more details on the nuances of role-
based access control, see [FER03].In conclusion, our study of access control mechanisms has intentionally progressed from simple to complex. Historically, as the mechanisms have provided greater flexibil-

ity, they have done so with a price of increased overhead. For example, implementing 

capabilities that must be checked on each access is far more difficult than implementing 

a simple directory structure that is checked only on a subject’s first access to an object. 

This complexity is apparent to both the user and implementer. The user is aware of 

additional protection features, but the naïve user may be frustrated or intimidated at 

having to select protection options with little understanding of their usefulness. The 

implementation complexity becomes apparent in slow response to users. The balance 

between simplicity and functionality is a continuing struggle in security.
2.3 CRYPTOGRAPHY
Next we introduce the third of our basic security tools, cryptography. In this chapter 

we present only the rudiments of the topic, just enough so you can see how it can be 

used and what it can achieve. We leave the internals for Chapter 12 at the end of this 

book. We do that because most computer security practitioners would be hard-pressed 

to explain or implement good cryptography from scratch, which makes our point that 

you do not need to understand the internals of cryptography just to use it successfully. 

As you read this chapter you may well ask why something is done in a particular way 

or how something really works. We invite you to jump to Chapter 12 for the details. But 

this chapter focuses on the tool and its uses, leaving the internal workings for the future.
Encryption or cryptography—the name means secret writing—is probably the stron-gest defense in the arsenal of computer security protection. Well-disguised data cannot 

easily be read, modified, or fabricated. Simply put, encryption is like a machine: you put 

data in one end, gears spin and lights flash, and you receive modified data out the other 

end. In fact, some encryption devices used during World War II operated with actual 

gears and rotors, and these devices were effective at deterring (although not always 

preventing) the opposite side from reading the protected messages. Now the machin-

ery has been replaced by computer 

algorithms, but the principle is the 

same: A transformation makes data 

difficult for an outsider to interpret.
We begin by examining what 
encryption does and how it works. We introduce the basic principles of encryption algo-

rithms, introducing two types of encryption with distinct uses. Because weak or flawed 
Cryptography conceals data against 
unauthorized access.Access control by role recognizes common 

needs of all members of a set of subjects.