776 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptographyto identical objects. For example, a possible one-time pad can be based on a telephone 
book. The sender and receiver might agree to start at page 35 and use two middle 

digits (ddd-DDdd) of each seven-digit phone number, mod 26, as a key letter for a 
substitution cipher. They use an already agreed-on table (a Vigenère tableau) that has 

all 26 letters.Any book can provide a key. The key is formed from the letters of the text, in order. 
This type of encryption was the basis for Ken Follett’s novel, 
The Key to Rebecca
, in which Daphne du Maurier’s famous thriller 
Rebecca acted as the source of keys for 
spies in World War II. Were the sender and receiver known to be using a popular book, 

such as The Key to Rebecca
, the bible, or Security in Computing, it would be easier for 
the cryptanalyst to try books against the ciphertext, rather than look for patterns and use 

sophisticated tools. Of course, the analyst has to deduce the correct book.We want to stress that these one-time pads and pseudo-one-time pads cannot repeat. 
If there is any repetition, the interceptor gets two streams of ciphertext: one for one 

block of plaintext, the other for a different plaintext, but both encrypted with the same 

key. The interceptor combines the two ciphertexts in such a way that the keys cancel 

each other out, leaving a combination of the two plaintexts. The interceptor can then 

do other analyses to expose patterns in the underlying plaintexts and give some likely 

plaintext elements. The worst case is that the user simply starts the pad over for a new 

message, for the interceptor may then be able to determine how to split the plaintexts 

and unzip the two plaintexts intact.
Statistical AnalysisText in any natural language has patterns. First are the frequencies of the letters them-

selves. The letters A, E, O, and T account for approximately 40 percent of all letters 

used in standard English text, and those letters plus N and I account for 50 percent. 

Furthermore, certain letter pairs, such as EN, RE, ER, and NT, and triples, such as ENT, 
ExclusiveOR or othercombiningfunctionOriginalPlaintextPlaintextCiphertextLongnonrepeatingseries ofnumbersExclusiveOR or othercombiningfunctionFIGURE 12-1 Vernam Cipher
