658 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentssales or improve product quality, so these planning activities should be a natural part of 
management. Next we turn to two particular kinds of business plans that address specific security 
problems: coping with and controlling activity during security incidents and ensuring 

that business activity continues in spite of an incident.
10.2 BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANNING
Small companies working on a low profit margin can be put out of business by a com-

puter incident (although how many do fail is in dispute, as Sidebar 10-2 reports). Large, 

financially sound businesses can weather a modest incident that interrupts their use of 

computers for a while, although it is painful to them. But even rich companies do not 

want to spend money unnecessarily. The analysis is sometimes as simple as 
no comput-ers means no customers means no sales means no profit.
Government agencies, educational institutions, and nonprofit organizations also have 
limited budgets, which they want to use to further their needs. They may not have a 
SIDEBAR 10-2  
Do Businesses Fail from Security 
Incidents?If you search the web you can easily find references to the statistic that 
80 percent of organizations affected by a significant computer incident 

close within 18 months. Or sometimes 40 percent. Or sometimes 2 years. 

Or sometimes businesses that have no continuity plan. With so many peo-
ple citing this statistic, it must be true.Or is it?
Mel Gosling, a business continuity planner, wrote an opinion piece on 
the Internet [GOS07] in which he argues that 80 percent, or even 40 per-

cent, is not believable. To support his opinion, he cites several major natural 

disasters (flood, disease outbreak, bombing) in which he can approximate 

the number of business failures and comes up with numbers well below 

even 40 percent.
Later, he and colleague Andrew Hiles [GOS09] searched for and ana-
lyzed 29 references to the number of businesses failing after a computer 

incident. In all 29 cases they found (a) no supporting justification, (b) a 

vague reference (“according to an [unspecified] IDC report. . . ”), (c) refer-

ence to a report from a source with a vested interest (such as a consulting 

company that guides clients on disaster planning), or (d) reference to a 

source that has no supporting data, or some similar elusive justification 

(reference to the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration, which 

referred to a book it wrote in 1997 that quotes a television broadcast). Thus, 

the 80 percent (or 40, 60, 70, 43, or 27 percent, pick your favorite number) 

figure seems without verifiable justification.
Be skeptical next time you hear such an assertion.
