490 Chapter 6  
NetworksThe public is unaware of these multiple servers, for example, when using the URL 
www.nytimes.com, which may become serv
er1.nytimes.com or 
www3.nytimes.com. 
In fact, on successive visits to the website 
a user’s activity may be handled by dif-
ferent servers. A 
load balancer is 
an appliance that redirects traffic to 

different servers while working to 

ensure that all servers have roughly 

equivalent workloads.
Network Tuning
Similarly, network engineers can adjust traffic on individual network segments. If two 
clients on one segment are responsible for a large proportion of the traffic, it may be 

better to place them on separate segments to even the traffic load. Engineers can install 

new links, restructure network segments, or upgrade connectivity to ensure good net-

work performance. Network tuning depends on solid data obtained by monitoring net-

work traffic over time.
In a real attack, network administrators can adjust bandwidth allocation to segments, 
and they can monitor incoming traffic, selectively dropping packets that seem to be 

malicious. (Note: Overzealously dropping packets risks little harm; the TCP proto-

col detects missing packets and seeks retransmission, and the UDP protocol does not 

guarantee delivery. Losing a small percentage of legitimate traffic while fending off a 

denial-of-service attack is an acceptable trade-off.)
Rate limiting is a countermeasure that reduces the impact of an attack. With rate 
limiting, the volume of traffic allowed to a particular address is reduced. Routers can 

send a quench signal back to another router that is forwarding traffic; such a signal 

informs the sending router that the receiving router is overloaded and cannot keep up, 

therefore asking the sender to hold up on transmitting data. A quench can work its 

way back through a network to a source of attack, as long as the attack comes from a 

single point.Network Addressing
A problem inherent in Internet (IPv4) addressing is that any packet can claim to come 
from any address: A system at address A can send a packet that shows address B as 

its source. That statement requires a bit of elaboration because address spoofing is not 

simply a matter of filling in a blank on a web page. Most users interact with the Inter-

net through higher-level applications, such as browsers and mail handlers, that craft 

communications streams and pass them to protocol handlers, such as bind and 
socks
. The protocol handlers perform the network interaction, supplying accurate data in the 

communication stream. Thus, someone can spoof an address only by overriding these 

protocol handlers, which requires privilege in an operating system. Hacker tools can do 

that interaction, and researchers Beverly and Bauer [BEV05] report on an experiment in 

which they spoofed transmissions from a quarter of Internet addresses.
Internet service providers, ISPs, could do more to ensure the validity of addresses 
in packets. With difficulty, providers can distinguish between traffic from their own 
Network load balancing directs 

incoming traffic to resources with 

available capacity.
