832 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
these actions in turn affects the firm’s trustworthiness and the likelihood that its prod-
ucts’ security will match their perception by consumers.
The behavioral, cultural, and organizational issues have effects beyond the organiza-
tion, too. Because one firm’s security has implications for other enterprises in a business 

sector or along a supply chain, the interpersonal interactions among colleagues in the 
sector or chain can affect their expectations of trust and responsibility. Companies can 

make agreements to invest enough along each link of the chain so that the overall sector 

or supply chain security is assured, with minimal cost to each contributor.
Current Research and Future Directions
In 2001, Cambridge University’s Ross Anderson described why information security is 

hard [AND01]. He also founded a series of Workshops in the Economics of Informa-

tion Security (see http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/econsec.html for links to each of the 

workshop’s proceedings). Just as security concerns confidentiality, integrity, and avail-

ability, research in cybersecurity economics focuses on the economic value and implica-

tions of these three characteristics. The economics of cybersecurity, still an emerging 

discipline even after almost two decades of research, is full of open questions. Its nov-

elty and multidisciplinarity mean that, as with any area of investigation, there is a scat-

tering of information and much we do not yet know.
Current research in cybersecurity economics focuses on the interaction between 
information technology and the marketplace. When we buy or use software, we are 

involved in the market in several ways. First, the price we pay for software may depend 

on how much we trust it; some consumers trust freeware far less than they trust a 

branded, proprietary product for which they pay a substantial price. Second, some com-

panies use the “softness” of software to charge more or less, depending on trade-offs 

involving personal information. Third, the marketplace can be manipulated to encour-

age vendors to reduce the number of flaws in their products. In this section, we sum-

marize the kinds of problems being addressed by today’s research and describe several 

open questions yet to be answered.Economics and PrivacyAndrew Odlyzko [ODL03] has been taking a careful look at how economics and pri-
vacy interact, particularly with the increased use of differential pricing. We have seen 

how, as the cost of storing and analyzing data continues to decrease, businesses easily 

capture data about customer behavior. Practices such as differential pricing encourage 

customers to part with personal information in exchange for lower prices. Many of us 

have “affinity cards” at supermarkets, office supply stores, book stores, and more that 

give us special offers or discounts when we give the vendors permission to capture our 

buying behavior. Businesses can also monitor where and how we navigate on the web 

and with whom we interact. The differential pricing also constrains and modifies our 

behavior, as when we purchase airline or rail tickets online in exchange for lower fares 

than we would have paid by telephone or in person. 
Economists Alessandro Acquisti and Hal Varian analyzed the market conditions 
under which it can be profitable for an enterprise to use this privacy/pricing trade-off. 
