742 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethicscountry committed from within another country. But to really support investigation, 
prosecution, and conviction of computer criminals, more than just these 25 countries 

will have to be involved.
The treaty requires countries that ratify it to adopt similar criminal laws on hack-
ing, computer-related fraud and forgery, unauthorized access, infringements of copy-

right, network disruption, and child pornography. The treaty also contains provisions 

on investigative powers and procedures, such as the search of computer networks and 

interception of communications, and requires cross-border law enforcement coopera-

tion in searches and seizures and extradition. The original treaty has been supplemented 

by an additional protocol making any publication of racist and xenophobic propaganda 

via computer networks a criminal offence.
E.U. Data Protection Act
The E.U. Data Protection Act, based on the European Privacy Directive, is model leg-
islation for all the countries in the European Union. It establishes privacy rights and 

protection responsibilities for all citizens of member countries. The act governs the 

collection and storage of personal data about individuals, such as name, address, and 

identification numbers. The law requires a business purpose for collecting the data, and 

it controls against disclosure. Dating from 1994 in its initial form, this law was one 

of the first to establish protection requirements for the privacy of personal data. Most 

significantly, the act requires equivalent protection in non-E.U. countries if organiza-

tions in the European Union pass protected data outside the European Union. Chapter 9 
contains more detail on this directive.
Restricted ContentSome countries have laws controlling Internet content allowed in their countries. Sin-
gapore requires service providers to filter content allowed in. China bans material that 

disturbs social order or undermines social stability. Tunisia has a law that applies the 

same controls on critical speech as for other media forms [HRW99].
Further laws have been proposed to make it illegal to transmit outlawed content 
through
 a country, regardless of whether the source or destination of the content is in 
that country. Given the complex and unpredictable routing structure of the Internet, 

complying with these laws, let alone enforcing them, is effectively impossible.
Why Computer Criminals Are Hard to Catch
As if computer crime laws and prosecution were not enough, it is also difficult for law 

enforcement agencies to catch computer criminals. There are two major reasons for this.
First, computer crime is a multinational activity that must usually be pursued on 
a national or local level. There are no international laws on computer crime. Even 

though the major industrial nations cooperate very effectively on tracking computer 

criminals, criminals know there are “safe havens” from which they cannot be caught. 

Often, the trail of a criminal stops cold at the boundary of a country. Many companies 

(see, for example, [VER14, SYM14, and MCA14] explore Internet attack trends by 

many factors. Nations all over the globe appear on these lists, and the numbers go up 
