 Section 6.1  Network Concepts 
343  already know, computer programs are vulnerable to unintentional and malicious fail-
ures. In this section we also consider some of the threats to which routing is susceptible.Background: Network Transmission Media
When data items leave a protected environment, others along the way can view or 

intercept
 the data; other terms used are 
eavesdrop
, wiretap
, or sniff. If you shout 
something at a friend some distance away, you are aware that people around you can 

hear what you say. The same is true with data, which can be intercepted both remotely, 

across a wide area network, and locally, in a local area network (LAN). Data commu-

nications travel either on wire or wirelessly, both of which are vulnerable, with varying 

degrees of ease of attack. The nature of interception depends on the medium, which we 

describe next. As you read this explanation, think also of modification and blocking 

attacks, which we describe shortly.
CableAt the most local level, all signals in 
an Ethernet or other LAN are avail-

able on the cable for anyone to inter-

cept. Each LAN connector (such as a computer board) has a unique address, called the 

MAC (for Media Access Control) address; each board and its drivers are programmed to 

label all packets from its host with its unique address (as a sender’s “return address”) and 

to take from the net only those packets addressed to its host.
Packet Sniffing 
Removing only those packets addressed to a given host is mostly a matter of polite-

ness; there is little to stop a program from examining each packet as it goes by. A 

device called a 
packet sniffer
 retrieves all packets on its LAN. Alternatively, one of 
the interface cards can be reprogrammed to have the supposedly unique MAC address 

of another existing card on the LAN so that two different cards will both fetch packets 

for one address. (To avoid detection, the rogue card will have to put back on the net 

copies of the packets it has intercepted.) Fortunately (for now), wired LANs are usu-

ally used only in environments that are fairly friendly, so these kinds of attacks occur 

infrequently.
Radiation Clever attackers can take advantage of a wire’s properties and can read packets with-

out any physical manipulation. Ordinary wire (and many other electronic components) 

emits radiation. By a process called inductance an intruder can tap a wire and read 
radiated signals without making physical contact with the cable; essentially, the intruder 

puts an antenna close to the cable and picks up the electromagnetic radiation of the sig-
nals passing through the wire. (Read Sidebar 6-1 for some examples of interception of 

such radiation.) A cable’s inductance signals travel only short distances, and they can be 

blocked by other conductive materials, so an attacker can foil inductance by wrapping a 

cable in more wire and perhaps sending other, confounding signals through the wrapped 
Signal interception is a serious potential 

network vulnerability.
