 Section 7.4  Database Disclosure 
529  Friedland and Sommer speculate that these numbers are low only because some photo-
editing applications automatically remove or replace the metadata. These researchers 

point out the potential for misuse of the data by burglars, kidnappers, or other evildoers.
Tracking Devices 
Somewhat more obvious but still often overlooked are the electronic devices that we keep 

with us. Cell phones continually search for a nearby tower, RFID tags for transportation 

or identification can be read by off-the-shelf devices, and GPS navigation devices both 

send and receive position data. Although we use these technologies for good purposes, 

we need to be aware that they can be used to build a relatively complete trail of our move-

ments throughout the day. The Electronic Frontier Foundation [BLU09] has studied this 

problem and recommends, among other countermeasures, some innovative cryptographic 

protocols that would permit these locational data interchanges anonymously.
The problem with metadata is that it is not obvious to the object’s owner, but it is 
well structured and readily available to anyone who wants to use it. One solution is 

not to collect the data, but it is currently built into many devices such as cameras, and 

other devices such as cell phones require such data to operate. Appropriate access con-

trols to this sensitive locational data would be good, but too many products and appli-

cations have now been built without consideration of security; introducing a security 

requirement at this time is essentially impossible. The best we can hope for may be that 

web applications, such as YouTube, 

Flickr, Picasa, and Google Docs, 

that obtain sensitive data will filter 

out such data as they receive it and 

before they display it.
In the next section we consider ways to address the more general data inference 
problem of correlation in single and multiple databases.Preventing Disclosure: Data Suppression and Modification
There are no perfect solutions to the inference and aggregation problems. The 

approaches to controlling it follow the three paths listed below. The first two methods 

can be used either to limit queries accepted or to limit data provided in response to a 

query. The last method applies only to data released.
• Suppress obviously sensitive information
. This action can be taken fairly easily. 
The tendency is to err on the side of suppression, thereby restricting the useful-

ness of the database.• Track what the user knows. 
Although possibly leading to the greatest safe dis-
closure, this approach is extremely costly. Information must be maintained on 

all users, even though most are not trying to obtain sensitive data. Moreover, this 

approach seldom takes into account what any two people may know together 

and cannot address what a single user can accomplish by using multiple IDs.• Disguise the data. Random perturbation and rounding can inhibit statistical 
attacks that depend on exact values for logical and algebraic manipulation. The 

users of the database receive slightly incorrect or possibly inconsistent results.
Data tracking can occur with data the 

user or owner does not even know exist.