 Section 11.6  Ethical Issues in Computer Security 
749  The principle of utilitarianism is also an assessment of good and bad results, but 
the reference group is the entire universe. The utilitarian chooses that action that will 

bring the greatest collective good for all people with the least possible negative for all. 

In this situation, the utilitarian would assess personal good and bad, good and bad for 

the company, good and bad for the customer, and, perhaps, good and bad for society at 

large. For example, a developer designing software to monitor smokestack emissions 

would need to assess its effects on everyone breathing. The utilitarian might perceive 

greater good to everyone by taking the time to write high-quality code, despite the nega-

tive personal consequence of displeasing management.
Rule-Based PrinciplesAnother ethical theory is deontology, which is founded on a sense of duty. This ethical 
principle states that certain things are good in and of themselves. These things that are 

naturally good are good rules or acts, which require no higher justification. Something 

just is good; it does not have to be judged for its effect.
Examples (from Frankena [FRA73]) of intrinsically good things are
• truth, knowledge, and true opinion of various kinds; understanding, wisdom
• just distribution of good and evil; justice

• pleasure, satisfaction; happiness; life, consciousness

• peace, security, freedom

• good reputation, honor, esteem; mutual affection, love, friendship, cooperation; 
morally good dispositions or virtues• beauty, aesthetic experience
Rule-deontology is the school of ethical reasoning that believes certain universal, 
self-evident, natural rules specify our proper conduct. Certain basic moral principles 

are adhered to because of our responsibilities to one another; these principles are often 
stated as rights: the right to know, the right to privacy, the right to fair compensation 

for work. Sir David Ross [ROS30] lists various duties incumbent on all human beings:
• fidelity,
 or truthfulness• reparation,
 the duty to recompense for a previous wrongful act
• gratitude,
 thankfulness for previous services or kind acts
• justice,
 distribution of happiness in accordance with merit
• beneficence,
 the obligation to help other people or to make their lives better
• nonmaleficence,
 not harming others• self-improvement,
 to continually become better, both in a mental sense and in a 
moral sense (for example, by not committing a wrong a second time)
Another school of reasoning is based on rules derived by each individual. Religion, 
teaching, experience, and reflection lead each person to a set of personal moral prin-

ciples. The answer to an ethical question is found by weighing values in terms of what 

a person believes to be right behavior.
