836 Chapter 13  
Emerging Topics
voter can examine and verify. The paper ballot is then counted by hand or processed 
electronically.
The act of casting a ballot is part of a larger process to support voting. The process 
must include building and maintaining the list of eligible voters, ensuring that each per-

son knows when and where to vote, confirming the identity of each professed eligible 

voter, recording who has voted, supporting absentee ballots (that is, ballots for people 

who cannot report to a voting place), and assisting voters who report to the wrong poll-

ing place or need other assistance. Transmitting and Counting Ballots
There are many important steps in the election process, starting before an individual’s 
voting and ending with determination of the winners of elections. Voters must be regis-

tered or authorized, candidates must be approved, ballots must be generated, the elec-

tion parameters (time and place) must be announced, and election workers must be 

trained. After votes are cast, they must be tallied at individual polling sites, transmitted 

to precincts or election headquarters, and then amalgamated and totaled there. Finally, 

the results must be reported to officials who verify that the counts are correct and that 

the process was fair and honest. 
Each of these steps has obvious security and privacy implications. For example, in 
some political cultures, it may be desirable to keep secret the identities of those who 

voted, to prevent retaliation against people who did not vote for a powerful candidate. 

Indeed, most citizens want to vote anonymously. Although anonymity is easy to achieve 

with paper ballots (ignoring the possibility of fingerprint tracing or secretly marked 

ballots) and fairly easy to accomplish with simple machines such as optical readers 

(assuming usage protocols that preclude associating the order in which people voted 

with a voting log from the machine), it is sometimes more difficult to maintain anonym-

ity with computers. To understand why, consider the integrity objectives: Every vote is counted and 
only authorized people can vote. To satisfy the objective that every vote be counted, we 

would ideally have a way a voter could verify that his or her vote was counted, that is, 

be able to pick that vote out of the pool that was counted, which would imply some link-

age between a voter and a vote. Similarly, to ensure that only authorized people voted, 

we need to be able to trace each vote to the single authorized voter who cast that ballot. 

However, as you have probably already concluded, those connections can also reveal 

who cast which ballot.What Is a Fair Election?We often hear about the need for “free and fair elections.” But what exactly is a fair 

election? According to Shamos [SHA93], a fair election is one that satisfies all of the 

following conditions:
• Each voter’s choices must be kept secret.
• Each voter may vote only once and only for allowed offices.
