610 Chapter 9  
Privacyout a new credit card in another person’s name is also a crime: identity theft. Identity 
theft has risen as a problem from a relatively rare issue in the 1970s to one affect-

ing 1 in 20 consumers today. In 2005, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission received 

over 250,000 complaints of identity theft [FTC06]. But Javelin’s 2014 Identity Fraud 

Report [JAV14]
 notes that an identity theft occurs in the United States every two sec-
onds. Indeed the incidence of overall identity theft affected 5.3 percent of consumers in 

2013, up from 4.9 percent in 2012. Identity theft occurs in many ways: unauthorized opening of an account in some-
one else’s name, changing account information to enable the thief to take over and use 

someone else’s account or service, or perpetration of fraud by obtaining identity docu-

ments in the stolen name. Most cases of identity theft become apparent a month or two 

after the data are stolen, when fraudulent bills or transactions start coming or appearing 
in the victim’s files. By that time, the thief has likely made a profit and has dropped the 

stolen identity, moving on to a new victim.
Having relatively few unique identifying characteristics facilitates identity theft: A 
thief who gets one key, such as a national identity number, can use that to get a second, 

and those two to get a third. Each key gives access to more data and resources. Few 

companies or agencies are set up to ask truly discriminating authentication questions 
(such as the grocery store at which you frequently shop or the city to which you recently 
bought an airplane ticket or the third digit on line four of your last tax return). Because 

there are few authentication keys, we are often asked to give out the same key (such as 

mother’s maiden name) to many people, some of whom might be part-time accomplices 

in identity theft. The U.S. Department of Justice maintains an identity theft website, 

with information about how to prevent identity theft and what to do if you find yourself 

a victim: http://www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/websites/idtheft.html. 
9.3 AUTHENTICATION AND PRIVACY
In Chapter 2 we studied authentication, which we described as a means of proving or 

verifying a previously given identity. We also discussed various authentication technol-

ogies, which are subject to false accept (false positive) and false reject (false negative) 

limitations. Here, we examine the problem that occurs when we confuse authentication 

with identification.
We know that passwords are a poor discriminator and are definitely not an identifier. 
You would not expect all users of a system to have chosen different passwords. All we 

need is for the ID–password pair to be unique. On the other end of the spectrum, finger-

prints and the blood vessel pattern in the eye’s retina are thought to be unique: Given 

a fingerprint or retina pattern, we expect to get only one identity that corresponds or to 

find no match in the database. That situation assumes we work with a good image. If 

the fingerprint is blurred or incomplete (not a complete contact or on a partly unsuitable 

surface), we might get several possible matches. Other authenticators are less sophisti-

cated still. Hand geometry or facial appearance does not discriminate so well. Face rec-

ognition, in particular, is highly dependent on the quality of the facial image: Evaluating 

a photograph of one person staring directly into a camera is very different from trying to 

identify one face in the picture of a crowd.
