340 Chapter 5  
Operating Systems14. File access control relates largely to the secrecy dimension of security. What is the relation-
ship between an access control matrix and the integrity of the objects to which access is 

being controlled?15. One feature of a capability-based protection system is the ability of one process to transfer a copy of a capability to another process. Describe a situation in which one process should be 

able to transfer a capability to another.
16. Describe a mechanism by which an operating system can enforce limited transfer of capa-
bilities. That is, process A might transfer a capability to process B, but A wants to prevent B 

from transferring the capability to any other processes.
 Your design should include a description of the activities to be performed by 
A and 
B, as well as the activities performed by and the information maintained by the operating 

system.17. List two disadvantages of using physical separation in a computing system. List two disad-
vantages of using temporal separation in a computing system.
18. Explain why asynchronous I/O activity is a problem with many memory protection schemes, 
including base/bounds and paging. Suggest a solution to the problem.19. Suggest an efficient scheme for maintaining a per-user protection scheme. That is, the system 
maintains one directory per user, and that directory lists all the objects to which the user is 

allowed access. Your design should address the needs of a system with 1000 users, of whom 

no more than 20 are active at any time. Each user has an average of 200 permitted objects; 

there are 50,000 total objects in the system.20. A flaw in the protection system of many operating systems is argument passing. Often a 
common shared stack is used by all nested routines for arguments as well as for the remain-

der of the context of each calling process.
(a) Explain what vulnerabilities this flaw presents.
(b) Explain how the flaw can be controlled. The shared stack is still to be used for passing 
arguments and storing context.
