168 Chapter 3  
Programs and ProgrammingBecause viruses are insidious, we cannot assume that a clean program yesterday is still clean today. Moreover, a good program can be modified to include a copy of the virus 

program, so the infected good program itself begins to act as a virus, infecting other 

programs. The infection usually 

spreads at a geometric rate, eventu-

ally overtaking an entire computing 

system and spreading to other con-
nected systems.A virus can be either transient or resident. A 
transient virus has a life span that 
depends on the life of its host; the virus runs when the program to which it is attached 
executes, and it terminates when the attached program ends. (During its execution, the 

transient virus may spread its infection to other programs.) A 
resident
 virus locates 
itself in memory; it can then remain active or be activated as a stand-alone program, 

even after its attached program ends.
The terms worm and virus are often used interchangeably, but they actually refer to 
different things. A 
worm
 is a program that spreads copies of itself through a network. 
(John Shoch and Jon Hupp [SHO82] are apparently the first to describe a worm, which, 

interestingly, was created for nonmalicious purposes. Researchers at the Xerox Palo Alto 

Research Center, Shoch and Hupp wrote the first program as an experiment in distributed 

computing.) The primary difference between a worm and a virus is that a worm operates 

through networks, and a virus can spread through any medium (but usually uses a copied 

program or data files). Additionally, 

the worm spreads copies of itself as 

a stand-alone program, whereas the 
virus spreads copies of itself as a 

program that attaches to or embeds 
in other programs. 
Spreading copies of yourself seems boring and perhaps narcissistic. But worms do 
have a common, useful purpose. How big is the Internet? What addresses are in use? 

Worm programs, sometimes called “crawlers” seek out machines on which they can 

install small pieces of code to gather such data. The code items report back to collection 

points, telling what connectivity they have found. As we describe in Chapter 6, this kind 

of reconnaissance can also have a negative security purpose; the worms that travel and 

collect data do not have to be evil.
As a slightly different example of this type of worm, consider how search engines 
know about all the pages on the web. A 
bot (short for robot), is a kind of worm used 
in vast numbers by search engine hosts like Bing and Google. Armies of these agents 

run on any computers on which they can install themselves. Their purpose is to scan 

accessible web content continuously and report back to their controller any new content 

they have found. In this way, the agents find pages that their controllers then catalog, 

enabling the search engines to return these results in response to individuals’ que-

ries. Thus, when you post a new web page (or modify an old one) with results of your 

research on why people like peanut butter, a crawler soon notices that page and informs 

its controller of the contents and whereabouts of your new page.
Virus: code with malicious purpose; 

intended to spread
Worm: program that spreads copies of 

itself through a network
