752 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and Ethics• Dave worked for a government office instead of a private company and reasoned 
that the computer belonged “to the people.”
Situation II: Privacy RightsIn this incident the central issue is the individual’s right to privacy. Privacy is both a 

legal and an ethical issue because of the pertinent laws discussed in the previous section.
The IncidentDonald works for the county records department as a computer records clerk, where he 
has access to files of property tax records. For a scientific study, a researcher, Ethel, has 

been granted access to the numerical portion—but not the corresponding names—of 

some records.Ethel finds some information that she would like to use, but she needs the names 
and addresses corresponding with certain properties. Ethel asks Donald to retrieve the 

names and addresses so she can contact these people for more information and for per-

mission to do further study.
Should Donald release the names and addresses?Some Principles InvolvedHere are some of the ethical principles involved in this case. What are other ethical 
principles? Which principles are subordinate to which others?
• Job responsibility. 
Donald’s job is to manage individual records, not to make 
determinations of appropriate use. Policy decisions should be made by someone 

of higher authority.
• Use. 
The records are used for legitimate scientific study, not for profit or to 
expose sensitive data. (However, Ethel’s access is authorized only for the 

numerical data, not for the private information relating property conditions to 

individuals.)
• Possible misuse. 
Although he believes Ethel’s motives are proper, Donald cannot 
guarantee that Ethel will use the data only to follow up on interesting data items.
• Confidentiality. 
Had Ethel been intended to have names and addresses, they 
would have been given initially.
• Tacit permission. 
Ethel has been granted permission to access parts of these 
records for research purposes, so she should have access to complete her 

research.• Propriety. 
Because Ethel has no authority to obtain names and addresses and 
because the names and addresses represent the confidential part of the data, 

Donald should deny Ethel’s request for access.
AnalysisA rule-deontologist would argue that privacy is an inherent good and that one should 
not violate the privacy of another. Therefore, Donald should not release the names.
