390 Chapter 6  
NetworksAn interested attacker can test for all 16 million possible initialization vectors in a 
few hours, and weaknesses such as unchanging (so-called weak) initialization vectors 

reduce the number of tests even further, thus speeding up the search.
Faulty Integrity Check As if encryption problems were not enough, WEP was not designed for strong integrity. 

As you already know, wireless communications are subject to data loss and interfer-

ence. Thus, the protocol designers included a check value to demonstrate whether a 

frame arrived intact or some bits had been lost or accidentally changed in transmission. 

The receiver recomputes the check value and if it does not match, signals a transmission 

error and asks for another copy to be sent.
The integrity check uses a well-known algorithm. If a malicious attacker wants to 
change part of a communication, the attacker simply changes the data, computes a new 

integrity check value, and replaces the original check with the new one. Thus, when the 

frame arrives, the new check value will match the modified data, and the receiver will 

not be aware the data value has been modified maliciously.
No Authentication A final flaw in the WEP protocol is that it has no authentication. Any device that can 

name the correct SSID and present the correct MAC address is assumed to be legiti-

mate. As we saw, even if the SSID is not broadcast, it is available in other frames, as 

is the MAC address, so an attacker 

can easily present the SSID and 

reconfigure the NIC to indicate the 

necessary MAC address. Thus, the 

attacker is not seriously deterred 

from faking a valid network node.
Bottom Line: WEP Security Is UnacceptableAll these flaws of WEP are limitations of the basic WEP protocol. Within a few years 
of introduction of the WEP standard, researchers (see [FLU01] and [ARB02]) produced 

actual demonstration programs showing the ability to deduce an RC4 key in minutes. 

As Sidebar 6-13 describes, these weaknesses are not just theoretical; attackers actually 

exploited these vulnerabilities and compromised wireless systems, causing loss of large 

amounts of sensitive data. The WEP protocol design does not use cryptography effec-

tively, fails to perform authentication, lacks effective control over intentional modifica-

tion, and cannot assure availability to authorized users. With these flaws in the protocol 

itself, no improved implementation or secure mode of use can compensate.
Stronger Protocol Suite: WPA (WiFi Protected Access)
The WEP protocol suite was published in 1997 and ratified in 1999, which means that 

products implementing WEP began to appear around 1999. In 1995 sci.crypt postings, 

Wagner [WAG95] and Roos [ROO95] independently discovered problems in the key 

structure of RC4 but, because RC4 was not widely used before its incorporation in the 

WEP standard, these problems had not been widely studied.WEP uses short, infrequently changed 

encryption keys, it requires no 

authentication, and its integrity is easily 
compromised.
