670 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentsthe benefits of taking the action with the possible losses that might result. Just because a 
certain act carries a risk, we do not necessarily avoid it; we may look both ways before 

crossing the street, but we do cross it. In building and using computing systems, we 

must take a more organized and careful approach to assessing our risks. Many of the 

systems we build and use can have a dramatic impact on life and health if they fail. For 

this reason, risk analysis is an essential part of security planning.We cannot guarantee that our systems will be risk free; that is why our security plans 
must address actions needed should an unexpected risk become a problem. And some 

risks are simply part of doing business; for example, as we have seen, we must plan for 

disaster recovery, even though we take many steps to avoid disasters in the first place.
When we acknowledge that a significant problem cannot be prevented, we can use 
controls to reduce the seriousness of a threat. For example, you can back up files on 

your computer as a defense against the possible failure of a file storage device. But 

as our computing systems become more complex and more distributed, complete risk 

analysis becomes more difficult and time consuming—and more essential.
Steps of a Risk AnalysisRisk analysis is performed in many different contexts; for example, environmental 

and health risks are analyzed for activities such as building dams, disposing of nuclear 

waste, or changing a manufacturing process. Risk analysis for security is adapted from 

more general management practices, placing special emphasis on the kinds of problems 
likely to arise from security issues. By following well-defined steps, we can analyze the 

security risks in a computing system.The basic steps of risk analysis are listed below. 
1. Identify assets. 2. Determine vulnerabilities. 3. Estimate likelihood of exploitation. 
4. Compute expected annual loss. 
5. Survey applicable controls and their costs. 
6. Project annual savings of control. 
Sidebar 10-4 illustrates how different organizations take slightly different 
approaches, but the basic activities are still the same. These steps are described in detail 

in the following sections.
SIDEBAR 10-4 Alternative Steps in Risk Analysis
There are many formal approaches to performing risk analysis. For exam-
ple, the U.S. Army used its Operations Security (OPSEC) guidelines during 

the Vietnam War [SEC99]. The guidelines involve five steps:
1. Identify the critical information to be protected.
2. Analyze the threats.
