634 Chapter 9  
PrivacyAnonymous, Pseudonymous, and Disappearing EmailWe have described anonymity in other settings; there are reasons for anonymous email, 
as well.As with telephone calls, employees sending tips or complaining to management may 
want to do so anonymously. For example, consumers may want to contact commercial 

establishments—to register a complaint, inquire about products, or request informa-

tion—without getting on a mailing list or becoming a target for spam. Or people begin-

ning a personal relationship may want to pass along some information without giving 

away their full identities or location. For these reasons and more, people want to be able 

to send anonymous email.
Free email addresses are readily available from Yahoo!, Microsoft Hotmail, and 
many other places, and several services offer disposable addresses, too. People can treat 

these addresses as disposable: Obtain one, use it for a while, and discard it (by ceasing 
to use it).Simple RemailersAnother solution is a remailer. A 
remailer
 is a trusted third party to whom you send an email message and indicate to whom you want your mail sent. The remailer strips off 

the sender’s name and address, assigns an anonymous pseudonym as the sender, and 

forwards the message to the designated recipient. The third party keeps a record of the 

correspondence between pseudonyms and real names and addresses. If the recipient 

replies, the remailer removes the recipient’s name and address, applies a different anon-

ymous pseudonym, and forwards the message to the original sender. Such a remailer 

knows both sender and receiver, so it provides pseudonymity, not anonymity.
Multiple RemailersA more complicated design is needed to overcome the problem that the remailer knows 
who the real sender and receiver are. The basic approach involves a set of cooperating 

hosts, sometimes called mixmaster remailers
, that agree to forward mail. Each host 
publishes its own public encryption key.
The sender creates a message and selects several of the cooperating hosts. The 
sender designates the ultimate recipient (call it node n) and places a destination note with the content. The sender then chooses one of the cooperating hosts (call it node 

n1), encrypts the package with the public key of node (
n1) and places a destination note showing node (
n) with the encrypted package. The sender chooses another node 
(n2), encrypts, and adds a destination note for (n1). The sender thus builds a multi-
layered package, with the message inside; each layer adds another layer of encryption 
and another destination.Each remailer node knows only from where it received the package and to whom to 
send it next. Only the first remailer knows the true recipient, and only the last remailer 

knows the final recipient. Therefore, no remailer can compromise the relationship 

between sender and receiver.
