806 Chapter 12  
Details of CryptographyDual-EC-DRBGAgainst that background of NSA involvement in cryptography comes the case of a ran-
dom number generator. An important use of random number generators is to obtain 

cryptographic keys. For algorithms such as DES and AES, any appropriately sized 

string of bits can be a key. For others such as RSA and ECC, the “key” consists of the 

values of a set of parameters and perhaps one or more random numbers (such as RSA’s 

p and 
q). Random number generators are not truly random. They emit a series of num-
bers in an unpredictable order. Thus, a good generator will produce a new key that an 

attacker cannot readily infer, even knowing the previous one or even previous thousands 

of keys. Most generators employ a complex series of arithmetic operations on a so-

called seed, or starting point.The Dual-EC-DBRG generator was based on an elliptic curve cryptosystem, a novel 
basis for a random number generator. Dual-EC was proposed as a standard by NIST 

(with the technical support of NSA) in 2006, and became a U.S. standard (NIST Special Publication 800-90A) in 2007.Shortly after its introduction cryptographers began to question peculiarities in the 
system. The ECC basis was one oddity, because that approach made generating random 

numbers slower than other approaches, by two or three orders of magnitude. Such a 

slowdown was not fatal, however, because most cryptographic applications generate 

random numbers only rarely, so speed is not important.
However, as we showed earlier in this chapter, ECCs depend on constants a and b in 
the basic elliptic equation. When cryptologists need constants they typically use what 

they call “nothing up my sleeve” numbers, taken from a neutral source such as digits in 

the definition of 
. The parameters for Dual-EC were specified as certain constants with 
no explanation or justification for those numbers.
Two Microsoft researchers in 2007 raised a concern about a possible predictability 
in Dual-EC. They asserted that if someone knew characteristics of the two initial points 

for the ECC equation, with little effort that person could intuit the internal state of the 

generator and from that, derive the future series of keys. The researchers were careful 

not to allege impropriety, but merely to point out this undesirable characteristic. So the 

generator continued to be used.Dual-EC Found to Be Compromised
In 2012 a former NSA employee with a high security clearance defected to Russia. 
Before leaving NSA he downloaded a large quantity of classified documents that he has 

passed to journalists. These documents appear to detail actions of the NSA that weaken 

the design or implementation of popular cryptography [PER13]. The downloaded docu-

ments allege NSA introduced weaknesses in the standard that would allow NSA (and 

anyone else who knew of the weaknesses) to predict output values. 
Cryptographer Prof. Matthew Green of Johns Hopkins University summarizes the 
apparent weaknesses and explains the chain of flaws [GRE13], culminating in “Flaw 

#4: If you know a certain property about the Dual_EC parameters, and can recover an 

output point, you can predict all subsequent outputs of the generator.” Shortly after this 

flaw was published, NIST advised “Based on public concerns and an evaluation of the 
