314 Chapter 5  
Operating Systemssubjects and what objects they are allowed to access. These other security parts interact 
with the reference monitor, receiving data from the reference monitor or providing it 

with the data it needs to operate.The reference monitor concept has been used for many trusted operating systems and 
also for smaller pieces of trusted software. The validity of this concept is well supported 

both in research and in practice. Paul Karger [KAR90, KAR91] and Morrie Gasser 

[GAS88] describe the design and construction of the kernelized DEC VAX operating 

system that adhered strictly to use of a reference monitor to control access.Correctness and Completeness
That security considerations pervade the design and structure of operating systems 

requires correctness and completeness. Correctness
 implies that because an operating 
system controls the interaction between subjects and objects, security must be consid-

ered in every aspect of its design. That is, the operating system design must include 

definitions of which objects will be protected in what ways, what subjects will have 

access and at what levels, and so on. There must be a clear mapping from the security 

requirements to the design so that all developers can see how the two relate.
Moreover, after designers have structured a section of the operating system, they 
must check to see that the design actually implements the degree of security that it 

is supposed to enforce. This checking can be done in many ways, including formal 

reviews or simulations. Again, a mapping is necessary, this time from the requirements 

to design to tests, so that developers can affirm that each aspect of operating system 

security has been tested and shown to work correctly. Because security appears in every 

part of an operating system, security design and implementation cannot be left fuzzy or 
vague until the rest of the system is working and being tested.
Completeness requires that security functionality be included in all places necessary. 
Although this requirement seems self-evident, not all developers are necessarily think-

ing of security as they design and write code, so security completeness is challenging. 

It is extremely hard to retrofit secu-

rity features to an operating system 
designed with inadequate security. 

Leaving an operating system’s secu-

rity to the last minute is much like 

trying to install plumbing or electrical wiring in a house whose foundation is set, floors 

laid, and walls already up and painted; not only must you destroy most of what you have 

built, but you may also find that the general structure can no longer accommodate all that 

is needed (and so some has to be left out or compromised). And last-minute additions are 

often done hastily under time pressure, which does not encourage completeness.Thus, security must be an essen-
tial part of the initial design of a 

trusted operating system. Indeed, 

the security considerations may 

shape many of the other design 

decisions, especially for a system 
Security enforcement must be correct 

and complete.Security seldom succeeds as an add-
on; it must be part of the initial 
philosophy, requirements, design, and 

implementation.