 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
621  Payments on the Web
Customers of online merchants must be able to pay online for purchases. There are two 
basic approaches: Customers give their credit card information to the merchant or they 

arrange payment through an online payment system such as PayPal.
Credit Card Payments
With a credit card, the user enters the credit card number, a special number printed 
on the card (presumably to demonstrate that the user actually possesses the card), the 
expiration date of the card (to ensure that the card is currently active), and the billing 

address of the credit card (presumably to protect against theft of the credit card). These 

protections are all on the side of the merchant: They demonstrate that the merchant 

made a best effort to determine that the credit card use was legitimate. There is no 

protection to the customer that the merchant will secure these data. Once the customer 
has given this information to one merchant, that same information is all that would be 

required for another merchant to accept a sale charged to the same card.
Furthermore, these pieces of information provide numerous static keys by which to 
correlate databases. As we have seen, names can be difficult to work with because of 

the risk of misspelling, variation in presentation, truncation, and the like. Credit card 

numbers make excellent keys because they can be presented in only one way and there 

is even a trivial check digit to ensure that the card number is a valid sequence.
Debit cards can also be used for online payment. Although they work the same way 
as credit cards, they are usually not afforded the same protections as credit cards; there 

is far more risk to the payer to use debit than credit.
Because of problems with stolen credit card numbers, some banks are experiment-
ing with disposable credit cards: cards you could use for one transaction or for a fixed 

short period of time. That way, if a card number is stolen or intercepted, it could not be 

reused. Furthermore, having multiple card numbers limits the ability to use a credit card 

number as a key to compromise privacy through data mining.
Payment SchemesThe other way to make web payments is with an online payment scheme, such as Pay-
Pal. You pay PayPal a sum of money and receive an account number and a PIN. You 

can then log in to the PayPal central site, give an email address and amount to be paid, 

and PayPal transfers that amount. Because in the United States, PayPal is not regulated 

under the same banking laws as credit cards, it offers less consumer protection than 

does a credit card. However, the privacy advantage is that the user’s credit card or finan-

cial details are known only to PayPal, thus reducing the risk of their being stolen. Simi-

lar schemes, such as Square, use mobile phones to make payments. Other systems, like 

Bitcoin, are being established as virtual currency, independent of government issuance. 

The value and viability of virtual currencies are yet to be demonstrated.
