672 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidentsvaluable to another. For example, if a project has one key designer, then that designer is 
an essential asset; on the other hand, if a similar project has ten designers, any of whom 

could do the project’s design, then each designer is not as essential because there are 

nine easily available replacements. 

Thus, you must add to the list of 

assets the other people, processes, 

and things that must be protected.In a sense, the list of assets is an inventory of the system, including intangibles and 
human resource items. For security purposes, this inventory is more comprehensive 

than the traditional inventory of hardware and software often performed for configura-

tion management or accounting purposes. The point is to identify all assets necessary 

for the system to be usable.Step 2: Determine Vulnerabilities
The next step in risk analysis is to determine the vulnerabilities of these assets. This step 
requires imagination; we want to predict what damage might occur to the assets and 

from what sources. We can enhance our imaginative skills by developing a clear idea of 

the nature of vulnerabilities. This nature derives from the need to ensure the three basic 

goals of computer security: confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Thus, a vulner-

ability is any situation that could cause loss of confidentiality, integrity, and availability. 

We want to use an organized approach to considering situations that could cause these 

losses for a particular object.Software engineering offers us several techniques for investigating possible prob-
lems. Hazard analysis, described in Sidebar 10-5, explores failures that may occur and 

faults that may cause them. These techniques have been used successfully in analyzing 

safety-critical systems. However, additional techniques are tailored specifically to secu-

rity concerns; we address those techniques in this and following sections.
Not all business assets are tangible, and 

not all are easy to value.
SIDEBAR 10-5  Hazard Analysis Techniques
Hazard analysis is a set of systematic but informal techniques intended to 
expose potentially hazardous system states. Using hazard analysis helps 

us find strategies to prevent or mitigate harm once we understand what 

problems can occur. That is, hazard analysis ferrets out not only the effects 

of problems but also their likely causes so that we can then apply an appro-

priate technique for preventing a problem or softening its consequences. 

Hazard analysis usually involves creating hazard lists as well as procedures 

for exploring “what if” scenarios to trigger consideration of nonobvious haz-
ards. The problems’ sources can be lurking in any artifacts of the develop-

ment or maintenance process, not just in the code. There are many kinds 

of problems, ranging from incorrect information or code, to unclear conse-

quences of a particular action. A good hazard analysis takes all of them 

into account.