 Section 10.5  Dealing with Disaster 
697  a backup is completed, it is trans-
ported to the backup site. Keeping 

a backup version separate from the 

actual system reduces the risk of its 
loss. Similarly, the paper trail is also 

stored somewhere other than at the 

main computing facility.
Personal computer users concerned with integrity can take home a copy of important 
disks as protection or send a copy to a friend in another city. If both secrecy and integrity 

are important, a bank vault, or even a secure storage place in another part of the same 

building can be used. The worst place to store a backup copy is where it usually is stored: 

right next to the machine.
Networked StorageWith today’s extensive use of networking, using the network to implement backups is 
a good idea. Storage providers sell space in which you can store data; think of these 

services as big network-attached disk drives. You rent space just as you would con-

sume electricity: You pay for what you use. The storage provider needs to provide only 

enough total space to cover everyone’s needs, and it is easy to monitor usage patterns 

and increase capacity as combined needs rise.Networked storage is perfect for backups of critical data because you can choose a 
storage provider whose physical storage is not close to your processing. In this way, 

physical harm to your system will not affect your backup. You do not need to manage 

tapes or other media and physically transport them offsite.
Cloud BackupThe Internet has given rise to another backup method. As we describe in Chapter 8, 
companies, including Internet giants Microsoft, Google, and Amazon, effectively aug-

ment a user’s workstation with a seemingly infinite set of hardware on the Internet. 

The user signs a contract with a cloud provider and uses the Internet effectively as an 

auxiliary device.
A typical service is Google docs, in which a user can create a document either 
locally or “in the cloud,” meaning through an Internet-based application on the user’s 

web browser. The user edits a document locally and pushes a replica of the document 

back into the Internet, or the user edits completely in the cloud, using the editing tools 
provided by the cloud server, for example, Google. Three significant advantages of this 

approach relate to availability.
First, and most important for this discussion, Google assumes responsibility for 
maintaining the content. Even if one of Google’s hardware storage devices fails, Google 

maintains replicated copies of the document on different devices in different locations, 

so the user is directed to a copy without even knowing there has been a hardware failure. 

Thus, the document is automatically backed up. Second, because the data are reached 

through the Internet, the user needs only an Internet connection to access a document; 
on a business trip, at home, or on vacation, the user accesses documents just as if in the 

office. Finally, the cloud permits document sharing by a controlled list of people.
If the purpose of backup is to protect 

against disaster, the backup must not 

also be destroyed in the disaster.
