 Section 6.2  Threats to Network Communications 
369  and defenses, and plans an appropriate attack. This investigation is not an attack itself, 
but something that contributes to the attacker’s method and opportunity.
Port ScanningScanning is an inspection activity, and as such it causes no harm itself (if you don’t 

consider learning about your opponent as harm). However, scanning is often used as a 

first step in an attack, a probe, to determine what further attacks might succeed. Thus, 

we next introduce the topic of probing subnetworks for their architecture and exposure.
Vulnerabilities in different versions of software products are well known: Vendors 
post lists of flaws and protective or corrective actions (patches and work-arounds), and 

security professionals maintain and distribute similar lists, as well as tools to test for 

vulnerabilities. Hackers circulate copies of attack code and scripts. The problem for the 

attacker is to know which attacks to address to which machines: An attack against a spe-

cific version of Adobe Reader will not work if the target machine does not run Reader 

or runs a version that does not contain the particular vulnerability. Sending an attack 

against a machine that is not vulnerable is at least time consuming but worse, may even 

make the attacker stand out or become visible and identifiable. Attackers want to shoot 

their arrows only at likely targets.
An easy way to gather network information is to use a 
port scanner, a program that, for a particular Internet (IP) address, reports which ports respond to queries and which of several known vulnerabilities seem to be present. Dan Farmer and Wietse Venema 

[FAR90, FAR95] are among the 

first to describe the technique in 
 the COPS and SATAN tools. Since 

then, tools such as NESSUS and 

Nmap have expanded on the network- 

probing concept.A port scan is much like a routine physical examination from a doctor, particularly 
the initial questions used to determine a medical history. The questions and answers 

by themselves may not seem significant, but they point to areas that suggest further 

investigation.
Port Scanning Tools
Port scanning tools are readily available, and not just to the underground community. 
The Nmap scanner, originally written by Fyodor and available at www.insecure.org/

nmap, is a useful tool that anyone can download. Given an address, Nmap will report 

all open ports, the service each supports, and the owner (user ID) of the daemon pro-

viding the service. (The owner is significant because it implies what privileges would 

be conferred on someone who compromised that service. Administrators tend to name 

privileged accounts with names like 
admin or system.) Another readily available scanner is netcat, written by Hobbit, at www.l0pht.com/
users/l0pht. Commercial products are a little more costly, but not prohibitive. Well-known 

commercial scanners are Nessus (Nessus Corp. [AND03]), CyberCop Scanner (Network 

Associates), Secure Scanner (Cisco), and Internet Scanner (Internet Security Systems).A port scan maps the topology and 
hardware and software components of 

a network segment.