 Section 13.1  The Internet of Things 
819  formed an opinion. Yet all these people were users, many of whom sent, accessed, and 
stored sensitive data with and on their phones. To help them decide whether to trust a 

mobile device (or a particular application), 20 percent said they would trust a security 

expert’s advice, 14 percent a service provider’s, 13 percent a software provider’s, and 

10 percent a device manufacturer’s: not resounding votes of confidence in any of these 

sources. Clearly, people have low confidence and do not know whom to trust, but they 

use these devices nevertheless. Indeed, the survey reports that the average user has three 

devices; 18 percent of respondents had five or more devices.
Mobile Malware
Users’ concern for security stems largely from reports of malware on mobile devices. 
Reports of malicious applications, called apps, come from all major antivirus product 

and analysis companies. Victor Chebyshev and Roman Unuchek of Kaspersky Labs 

(a major antivirus product and research firm) studied malware for mobile devices found 

by their labs in 2013 [CHE14a]. The labs identified 143,211 distinct new forms of mal-

ware in calendar year 2013. Thus, attacks against mobile devices are certainly plentiful.
Most attacks targeted Android devices, by a margin far in excess of its market share. 
By Kaspersky’s count 98.05 percent of all malware for mobile platforms targeted 

Android. As Chebyshev and Unuchek say, this figure “[confirms] both the popularity of 

this mobile OS and the vulnerability of its architecture.” By architecture these research-

ers also mean the kinds of apps that the operating system permits to be installed. We 

begin by exploring how Apple and Windows have such dramatically lower counts of 

malware.
Sources of Applications
Apple allows only apps from its app store to be loaded on its devices. A developer sub-
mits an app for approval; after review Apple puts the app in its app store, from which 

users can download and install it. As of the writing of this book, Apple reported on 

its website (https://developer.apple.com/appstore/resources/approval/index.html) that it 

had completed reviews within five business days of 93 percent of new apps and 98 per-

cent of updates to current apps. (A completed review means that the app was either 

accepted for distribution through the iOS app store or was rejected and returned to the 

submitter.) Among things Apple says it rejects are apps distributing pornography and 

apps that significantly duplicate existing ones in functionality and usability. Apple does 

not give details about the review-and-approval process, although the speed of approval 

and the volume of apps imply that the security aspect of the process cannot be too rig-

orous. And as we’ve seen in earlier chapters, no review (no matter how extensive) can 

guarantee foolproof security.
Once approved, apps are signed, using a certificate approach similar to that described 
in Chapter 2. The operating system checks the certificate of an app before installing it 

on a mobile device, so only authorized developers and authorized code can be run. The 

signing also prevents malicious modification of an existing app (the modification of 

which would no longer match the original signature).
