306 Chapter 5  
Operating SystemsThis problem cannot be stopped during compilation or even when a program is 
loaded, because effective use of segments requires that they be allowed to grow in size 

during execution. For example, a segment might contain a dynamic data structure such 

as a stack. Therefore, secure implementation of segmentation requires the checking of 

a generated address to verify that it is not beyond the current end of the segment refer-

enced. Although this checking results in extra expense (in terms of time and resources), 

segmentation systems must perform this check; the segmentation process must maintain 

the current segment length in the translation table and compare every address generated.
Thus, we need to balance protection with efficiency, finding ways to keep segmen-
tation as efficient as possible. However, efficient implementation of segmentation pre- 

sents two problems: Segment names are inconvenient to encode in instructions, and the 

operating system’s lookup of the name in a table can be slow. To overcome these diffi-

culties, segment names are often converted to numbers by the compiler when a program 

is translated; the compiler also appends a linkage table that matches numbers to true 
segment names. Unfortunately, this scheme presents an implementation difficulty when 

two procedures need to share the same segment, because the assigned segment numbers 

of data accessed by that segment must be the same.
Paging An alternative to segmentation is 
paging. The program is divided into equal-sized 
pieces called pages, and memory is divided into equal-sized units called page frames. 

(For implementation reasons, the page size is usually chosen to be a power of 2 between 

512 and 4096 bytes.) As with segmentation, each address in a paging scheme is a two-

part object, this time consisting of page, offset
.Each address is again translated by a process similar to that of segmentation: The 
operating system maintains a table of user page numbers and their true addresses in 

memory. The page portion of every 
page, offset
 reference is converted to a page frame 
address by a table lookup; the offset portion is added to the page frame address to pro-

duce the real memory address of the object referred to as page, offset
. This process is 
illustrated in Figure 5-13.Unlike segmentation, all pages in the paging approach are of the same fixed size, 
so fragmentation is not a problem. Each page can fit in any available page in memory, 

thus obviating the problem of addressing beyond the end of a page. The binary form of 

a page, offset
 address is designed 
so that the offset values fill a range 

of bits in the address. Therefore, an 

offset beyond the end of a particu-

lar page results in a carry into the 

page portion of the address, which 

changes the address.To see how this idea works, consider a page size of 1024 bytes (1024 
 210), where 10 bits are allocated for the offset portion of each address. A program cannot generate 

an offset value larger than 1023 in 10 bits. Moving to the next location after 
x,1023 causes a carry into the page portion, thereby moving translation to the next page. During 

the translation, the paging process checks to verify that a 
page, offset
 reference does 
not exceed the maximum number of pages the process has defined.
Paging allows the security advantages 
of segmentation with more efficient 

memory management.