62 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Accuracy of BiometricsWe think of biometrics—or any authentication technology—as binary: A person either 
passes or fails, and if we just set the parameters correctly, most of the right people will 

pass and most of the wrong people will fail. That is, the mechanism does not discrimi-

nate. In fact, the process is biased, caused by the balance between sensitivity and selec-

tivity: Some people are more likely to pass and others more likely to fail. Sidebar 2-10 

describes how this can happen. 
Until recently police and the justice system assumed that fingerprints are unique. 
However, there really is no mathematical or scientific basis for this assumption. In fact, 

fingerprint identification has been shown to be fallible, and both human and computer-

ized fingerprint comparison systems have also shown failures. Part of the comparison 

problem relates to the fact that not 

an entire fingerprint is compared, 

only characteristics at significant 

ridges on the print. Thus, humans 

or machines examine only salient 

features, called the template of 

that print.Unless every template is unique, that is, no two people have the same values, the 
system cannot uniquely identify subjects. However, as long as an imposter is unlikely 

to have the same biometric template as the real user, the system can authenticate. In 

authentication we do not look through all templates to see who might match a set of 
measured features; we simply determine whether one person’s features match his stored 

template. Biometric authentication is feasible today; biometric identification is largely 

still a research topic.Measuring the accuracy of biometric authentication is difficult because the authen-
tication is not unique. In an experimental setting, for any one subject or collection of 

subjects we can compute the false negative and false positive rates because we know the 

subjects and their true identities. But we cannot extrapolate those results to the world 

and ask how many other people could be authenticated as some person. We are limited 

because our research population and setting may not reflect the real world. Product 

vendors make many claims about the accuracy of biometrics or a particular biometric 

feature, but few independent researchers have actually tried to substantiate the claims. 

In one experiment described in Sidebar 2-11, expert fingerprint examiners, the people 

who testify about fingerprint evidence at trials, failed some of the time.
general probability (1 in 1.1 million) by the number of samples in the data-
base to derive the likelihood of a random—innocent—match.Although we do not know whether the person convicted in this case was guilty or innocent, the reasoning reminds us to be careful to distinguish 

between identification and authentication.SIDEBAR 2-9 ContinuedBiometric authentication means a subject matches a template closely 
enough. “Close” is a system parameter 
that can be tuned.