200 Chapter 3  
Programs and Programmingrecognize that the interview was in the 
Wall Street Journal
, a popular publication for business and finance executives. Antivirus products make money; otherwise there 

would not be so many of them on the market. However, consulting services can make 

even more money, too. The Symantec executive was making the point that businesses, 

whose executives read the 
Wall Street Journal
, need to invest also in advisors who will 
study a business’s computing activity, identify shortcomings, and recommend remedia-

tion. And in the event of a security incident, organizations will need similar advice on 

the cause of the case, the amount and nature of harm suffered, and the next steps for 

further protection.Virus Signatures 
A virus cannot be completely invisible. Code must be stored somewhere, and the code 

must be in memory to execute. Moreover, the virus executes in a particular way, using 

certain methods to spread. Each of these characteristics yields a telltale pattern, called 
a signature, that can be found by a program that looks for it. The virus’s signature is 

important for creating a program, called a virus scanner, that can detect and, in some 

cases, remove viruses. The scanner searches memory and long-term storage, monitor-

ing execution and watching for the telltale signatures of viruses. For example, a scanner 
SIDEBAR 3-9 Free Security
Whenever influenza threatens, governments urge all citizens to get a flu 
vaccine. Not everyone does, but the vaccines manage to keep down the 

incidence of flu nevertheless. As long as enough people are vaccinated, 

the whole population gets protection. Such protection is called “herd 

immunity,” because all in the group are protected by the actions of most, 

usually because enough vaccination occurs to prevent the infection from 

spreading. 
In a similar way, sometimes parts of a network without security are 
protected by the other parts that are secure. For example, a node on a 

network may not incur the expense of antivirus software or a firewall, know-

ing that a virus or intruder is not likely to get far if the others in the network 
are protected. So the “free riding” acts as a disincentive to pay for security; 

the one who shirks security gets the benefit from the others’ good hygiene.
The same kind of free-riding discourages reporting of security attacks 
and breaches. As we have seen, it may be costly for an attacked organiza-

tion to report a problem, not just in terms of the resources invested in report-

ing but also in negative effects on reputation or stock price. So free-riding 

provides an incentive for an attacked organization to wait for someone else 

to report it, and then benefit from the problem’s resolution. Similarly, if a 

second organization experiences an attack and shares its information and 

successful response techniques with others, the first organization receives 

the benefits without bearing any of the costs. Thus, incentives matter, and 

technology without incentives to understand and use it properly may in fact 

be ineffective technology.
