   Exercises 
767  10. The Red King decided he did not like the color blue or anyone who would wear it or even 
mention its name. Being all powerful, he summoned all the Internet search engines and told 

them that henceforth if they hoped to do business in his country, they would have to edit 

out of their search results any that contained the offensive word (which he would not even 

utter). Some protested and stopped doing business in the kingdom, others assented, and some 

sneaked in the occasional blue reference by using a synonym, while waiting for the Red King 

to be replaced by the Rainbow Queen. Prepare an argument for or against the ethical position 

of the three ISPs’ responses. (After you have prepared your answer, read [THO06].) 
11. Prepare an argument for or against the proposition that the following is ethical behavior. You 
are running in an election for head of the sanitation department. Your opponent, the incum-

bent, is well liked; you know you will have strong competition. You write a story alleging 

that your opponent has developed a process to turn garbage into gold and stands to get rich 

from his access to city garbage. You know that not only is the story untrue, it is so incredible 

that almost nobody would believe it. Nevertheless, you plant it anonymously on the web 

and give it some interesting keywords to help search engines find it. Sure enough, about one 

week before election day, not only do people discover it but they start furiously sending it 

to each other, your town sets a new high in email traffic, and you win in a landslide. When 

questioned about this event years later, you shrug your shoulders and say, “It’s the Internet: 

People who believe what they read there deserve just what they get.”
12. Prepare an argument for or against the proposition that the following is ethical behavior. 
You are a medical researcher developing a new treatment for a serious condition. You have a 

drug that has done well in limited trials, but a competitor has a drug that seems more effec-

tive. One day you discover the competitor’s network and find, to your amazement, that you 

can access internal machines, including a machine that seems to have trial results for your 

competitor’s drug. You carefully change the statistics so that your product compares more 

favorably. Does the argument change if you change your data, not the competitor’s? Does the 

argument change if the data concern snake migration patterns? 
