702In this chapter:• Protecting programs and data: copyrights, patents, trade 
secrets• Computer crime statutes and the legal process

• Unique characteristics of digital objects

• Software quality: Uniform Commercial Code

• Ethics: principles and situations to explore
In this chapter we study human controls applicable to computer security: the legal 

system and ethics. The legal system has adapted quite well to computer technology 

by reusing some old forms of legal protection (copyrights and patents) and creating 
laws where no adequate ones existed (malicious access). Still, the courts are not a per-

fect form of protection for computer resources, for two reasons. First, the courts tend to 

be reactive instead of proactive. That is, we have to wait for a transgression to occur and 

then adjudicate it, rather than try to prevent it in the first place. Second, fixing a problem 

through the courts can be time consuming (sometimes taking years) and expensive; the 

latter characteristic prevents all but the wealthy from addressing most security issues.
On the other hand, ethics has not had to change, because ethics is more situational and personal than the law. For example, the privacy of personal information is becom-

ing an important part of computer security. And although technically this issue is just 

an aspect of confidentiality, practically it has a long history in both law and ethics. This 

chapter rounds out our study of protection for computing systems by considering the 
context in which security is assessed and applied.
Not always are conflicts resolved pleasantly. Some people will think that they have 
been treated unfairly, and some people do indeed act unfairly. In some countries, a citi-

zen reacts to a wrongful act by going to court. The courts are seen as the ultimate arbi-

ters and enforcers of fairness. But, as most lawyers will tell you, the courts’ definition of 

fair may not coincide with yours. Even if you could be sure the courts would side with 
you, a legal battle can be emotionally draining. Our purpose in this section is not only to 

understand how the legal system helps protect computer security but also to know how 

and when to use the legal system wisely.
11Legal Issues and Ethics