740 Chapter 11  
Legal Issues and EthicsUSA Patriot ActPassed in 2001 in reaction to terrorist attacks in the United States, the USA Patriot Act 
includes a number of provisions supporting law enforcement’s access to electronic com-

munications. Under this act, law enforcement need only convince a court that a target 

is probably an agent of a foreign power in order to obtain a wiretap order. The main 

computer security provision of the Patriot Act is an amendment to the Computer Fraud 

and Abuse Act:
• Knowingly causing the transmission of code resulting in damage to a protected 
computer is a felony.
• Recklessly causing damage to a computer system as a consequence of unauthor-
ized access is also a felony.
• Causing damage (even unintentionally) as a consequence of unauthorized access 
to a protected computer is a misdemeanor.
The CAN SPAM Act
Unsolicited “junk” email, or spam, is certainly a problem. Analysts estimate that as 
much as 70 percent of all email traffic is spam.
To address pressure from their constituents, in 2003 U.S. lawmakers passed the Con-
trolling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN SPAM) Act. 

(One wonders how many staff members it took to find a sequence of words to yield that 

acronym.) Key requirements of the law are these:
• It bans false or misleading header information on e-mail messages.
• It prohibits deceptive subject lines.

• It requires commercial email to give recipients an opt-out method.

• It bans sale or transfer of email addresses of people who have opted out. 

• It requires that commercial email be identified as an advertisement.
Critics of the law point out that it preempts state laws, and some states had stron-
ger laws. It also can be read as permitting commercial email as long as the mail is not 

deceptive. Finally, and most importantly, it does little to regulate spam that comes from 

offshore: A spam sender simply sends spam from a foreign mailer, perhaps in a country 

more interested in generating business for its national ISPs than in controlling world-

wide junk email. The most telling result: The volume of spam has not declined since 

the law.
California Breach Notification
The first state in the United States to enact a breach-notification law, California passed 
SB1386, effective in 2003. This law requires any company doing business in California 

or any California government agency to notify individuals of any breach that has, or 

is reasonably believed to have, compromised personal information on any California 

resident. As a state law, it is limited to California residents and California companies. At 

least 40 other states have since followed with some form of breach notification mandate.
