520 Chapter 7  
DatabasesBoundsAnother exposure is disclosing 
bounds on a sensitive value, that is, indicating that a 
sensitive value, 
y, is between two values, 
L and 
H. Sometimes, by using a narrowing 
technique not unlike the binary search, the user may first determine that 
L  y  H and 
then see whether L  y  H/2, and so forth, thereby permitting the user to determine y to any desired precision. In another case, merely revealing that a value such as the 
athletic scholarship budget or the number of CIA agents exceeds a certain amount may 

be a serious breach of security.
Sometimes, however, bounds are a useful way to present sensitive data. It is com-
mon to release upper and lower bounds for data without identifying the specific records. 

For example, a company may announce that its salaries for programmers range from 

$50,000 to $82,000. If you are a programmer earning $79,700, you would suppose you 

are fairly well off, so you have the information you want; however, the announcement 

does not disclose who are the highest- and lowest-paid programmers.
Negative ResultSometimes we can word a query to determine a 
negative result
. That is, we can learn 
that z is 
not the value of 
y. For example, knowing that 0 is not the total number of 
felony convictions for a person reveals that the person was convicted of a felony. The 

distinction between 1 and 2 or 46 and 47 felonies is not as sensitive as the distinction 

between 0 and 1. Therefore, disclosing that a value is not 0 can be a significant disclo-

sure. Similarly, if a student does not appear on the honors list, you can infer that the per-

son’s grade point average is below 3.50. This information is not too revealing, however, 

because the range of grade point averages from 0.0 to 3.49 is rather wide.
ExistenceIn some cases, the existence of data is itself a sensitive piece of data, regardless of the 
actual value. For example, an employer may not want employees to know that their tele-

phone use is being monitored. In this case, discovering a NUMBER OF PERSONAL 

TELEPHONE CALLS field in a personnel file would reveal sensitive data.
Probable Value
Finally, it may be possible to determine the probability that a certain element has a certain 
value. To see how, suppose you want 

to find out whether the president of 

the United States is registered in the 

Tory party. Knowing that the presi-

dent is in the database, you submit 

two queries to the database:
Count(Residence="1600 Pennsylvania Avenue") = 4Count(Residence="1600 Pennsylvania Avenue" AND Tory=TRUE) 
= 1A database manager can control access 
by direct queries; disclosure can occur 

in more subtle ways that are harder to 

control.
