14 Chapter 1  
Introductionlike fires or floods; loss of electrical power; failure of a component such as a communi-
cations cable, processor chip, or disk drive; or attack by a wild boar. 
Human threats
 can be either benign (nonmalicious) or malicious. 
Nonmalicious 
kinds of harm include someone’s accidentally spilling a soft drink on a laptop, unin-

tentionally deleting text, inadvertently sending an email message to the wrong person, 

and carelessly typing “12” instead of “21” when entering a phone number or clicking 
“yes” instead of “no” to overwrite a file. These inadvertent, human errors happen to 

most people; we just hope that the 

seriousness of harm is not too great, 
or if it is, that we will not repeat the 
mistake.
Most computer security activity relates to 
malicious, human-caused harm: A mali-
cious person actually wants to cause harm, and so we often use the term 
attack
 for a 
malicious computer security event. Malicious attacks can be random or directed. In 

a random attack the attacker wants to harm any computer or user; such an attack is 
analogous to accosting the next pedestrian who walks down the street. An example of a 

random attack is malicious code posted on a website that could be visited by anybody.
In a directed attack
, the attacker intends harm to specific computers, perhaps at one 
organization (think of attacks against a political organization) or belonging to a specific 

individual (think of trying to drain a specific person’s bank account, for example, by 

impersonation). Another class of directed attack is against a particular product, such as 

any computer running a particular browser. (We do not want to split hairs about whether 

such an attack is directed—at that one software product—or random, against any user 

of that product; the point is not semantic perfection but protecting against the attacks.) 

The range of possible directed 

attacks is practically unlimited. Dif-
ferent kinds of threats are shown in 

Figure 1-9.Although the distinctions shown in Figure 1-9 seem clear-cut, sometimes the nature 
of an attack is not obvious until the attack is well underway, or perhaps even ended. 

A normal hardware failure can seem like a directed, malicious attack to deny access, 

and hackers often try to conceal their activity to look like ordinary, authorized users. 

As computer security experts we need to anticipate what bad things might happen, 

instead of waiting for the attack to happen or debating whether the attack is intentional 

or accidental.Neither this book nor any checklist or method can show you 
all the kinds of harm 
that can happen to computer assets. There are too many ways to interfere with your use 

of these assets. Two retrospective lists of 
known vulnerabilities are of interest, how-
ever. The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) list (see http://cve.mitre.org/) 

is a dictionary of publicly known security vulnerabilities and exposures. CVE’s com-

mon identifiers enable data exchange between security products and provide a baseline 

index point for evaluating coverage of security tools and services. To measure the extent 

of harm, the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) (see http://nvd.nist.gov/ 

cvss.cfm) provides a standard measurement system that allows accurate and consistent 

scoring of vulnerability impact.Threats can be malicious or not. 
Threats can be targeted or random.
