 Section 11.2  Information and the Law 
721  Electronic Publishing
Many newspapers and magazines post a version of their content on the Internet, as do 
wire services and television news organizations. For example, the British Broadcast-

ing Company (BBC) and the Reuters news services have a significant web presence. 

We should expect that some news and information will eventually be published and 

distributed exclusively on the Internet. Indeed, the Britannica Encyclopedia, and the 

Columbia Encyclopedia are mainly web-based services now, rather than being delivered 

as the large number of book volumes they used to occupy. Here again the publisher has 

a problem ensuring that it receives fair compensation for the work. Cryptography-based 

technical solutions are under development to address this problem. However, these tech-

nical solutions must be supported by a legal structure to enforce their use. (Another 

impediment to such technical solutions is that they must be easy to use.)
Protecting Data in a Database
Databases are a particular form of software that has posed significant problems for legal 
interpretation. The courts have had difficulty deciding which protection laws apply to 

databases. How does one determine that a set of data came from a particular database 

(so that the database owner can claim some compensation)? Who even owns the data in 

a database if they are public data, such as names and addresses?
Electronic Commerce
Laws related to trade in goods have evolved literally over centuries. Adequate legal 
protections exist to cover defective goods, fraudulent payment, and failure to deliver 

when the goods are tangible and are bought through traditional outlets such as stores 
and catalogs. However, the situation becomes less clear when the goods are traded 

electronically.
If you order goods electronically, digital signatures and other cryptographic proto-
cols can provide a technical protection for your “money.” However, suppose the infor-

mation you order is not suitable for use or never arrives or arrives damaged or arrives 

too late to use. How do you prove conditions of the delivery? For catalog sales, you 

often have receipts or some paper form of acknowledgment of time, date, and location. 

But for digital sales, such verification may not exist or can easily be modified. These 

legal issues must be resolved as we move into an age of electronic commerce.
The Legal SystemClearly, current laws are imperfect for protecting the information itself and for protect-

ing electronically based forms of commerce. So how is information to be protected 

legally? As described, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets cover some, but not all, 

issues related to information. Nevertheless, the legal system does not allow free traffic 

in information; some mechanisms can be useful.