770 Chapter 12  
Details of Cryptography• Easily deduce the key to break one message, and perhaps subsequent ones.
• Find weaknesses in the implementation or environment of use of encryption by 
the sender.
• Find general weaknesses in an encryption algorithm, without necessarily having 
intercepted any messages.
In addition to these attacks, one other approach is worth mentioning, although it 
does not directly involve the encryption itself. An attacker can try to obtain data before 

encryption or after decryption, for example, by tapping a communications line or modi-

fying a program or the operating system. Although not a cryptographic technique, this 

method does reinforce that an attacker must be expected to use any means to obtain the 

desired data.Plaintext OnlyCode-breakers will use anything they can obtain. The most readily available input is the 
ciphertext of a single message, but that may also be the hardest puzzle to solve. Ana-

lysts look for patterns, similarities, and discontinuities, but with little data to analyze, 

those signs are elusive. For this reason, code-breakers like to obtain large amounts of 

data—many messages—encrypted alike, as can happen when a sender does not change 

its encryption key often. 
Plaintext and CiphertextEven better is to get a plaintext–ciphertext pair, because that find lets the analyst see 
what transformations occurred. Full or Partial PlaintextThe analyst may be fortunate enough to have a sample message and its decipherment. 
For example, a diplomatic service may have intercepted an encrypted message, sus-

pected to be the text of an official statement. If the official statement (in plaintext) is 

subsequently released, the interceptor has both C and P and need only deduce the E for which C  E(P) to find 
D. In this case the analyst is attempting to find 
E (or D) by using a known plaintext 
attack.The analyst may have additional information, too. For example, the analyst may 
know that the message was intercepted from a diplomatic exchange between Germany 

and Austria. From that information, the analyst may guess that the words Bonn, Vienna, 

and Chancellor appear in the message. Alternatively, the message may be a memoran-

dum to the sales force from a corporate president, and the memo would have a particu-

lar form (To: Sales Force, From: The President, Subject: Weekly Sales Update, Date: 

nn/nn/nn).In these cases, the analyst can use what is called a probable plaintext 
analysis. After doing part of the decryption, the analyst may find places where the known message fits 

with the deciphered parts, thereby giving more clues about the total translation.
Sometimes the analyst is lucky enough to obtain a copy of the encryption algorithm 
or machine, a situation described in Sidebar 12-2. In this instance the analyst can gener-

ate many messages, run them through the machine, and see the result.
