282 Chapter 5  
Operating Systems• a smartphone, tablet, or other web appliance
• a network appliance, such as a firewall or intrusion detection and prevention 
system (all covered in Chapter 6)
• a controller for a bank of web servers

• a (computer) network traffic management device
In addition to this list, of course, computers—from microcomputers to laptops to huge mainframes—have operating systems. The nature of an operating system varies accord-

ing to the complexity of the device on which it is installed, the degree of control it exer-

cises, and the amount of interaction it supports, both with humans and other devices. 

Thus, there is no one simple model of an operating system, and security functions and 
features vary considerably.
From a security standpoint, we are most interested in an operating system’s control 
of resources: which users are allowed which accesses to which objects, as we explore 

in the next section.
Security Features of Ordinary Operating Systems
A multiprogramming operating system performs several functions that relate to secu-

rity. To see how, examine Figure 5-1, which illustrates how an operating system inter-

acts with users, provides services, and allocates resources.
We can see that the system addresses several particular functions that involve com-
puter security:• Enforced sharing. 
Resources should be made available to users as appropri-
ate. Sharing brings about the need to guarantee integrity and consistency. Table 

lookup, combined with integrity controls such as monitors or transaction proces-

sors, is often used to support controlled sharing.• Interprocess communication and synchronization. 
Executing processes some-
times need to communicate with other processes or to synchronize their 

accesses to shared resources. Operating systems provide these services by acting 

as a bridge between processes, responding to process requests for asynchronous 
communication with other processes or synchronization. Interprocess commu-

nication is mediated by access control tables.• Protection of critical operating system data. 
The operating system must main-tain data by which it can enforce security. Obviously, if these data are not pro-

tected against unauthorized access (read, modify, and delete), the operating 

system cannot provide enforcement. Various techniques (including encryp-

tion, hardware control, and isolation) support protection of operating system 

security data.• Guaranteed fair service
. All users expect CPU usage and other service to be 
provided so that no user is indefinitely starved from receiving service. Hardware 

clocks combine with scheduling disciplines to provide fairness. Hardware facili-

ties and data tables combine to provide control.
