270 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
Advertising The largest proportion of spam offers pharmaceuticals. Why are these so popular? First, 

some of the drugs are for adult products that patients would be embarrassed to request 

from their doctors. Second, the ads offer drugs at prices well under local retail prices. 

Third, the ads offer prescription drugs that would ordinarily require a doctor’s visit, 

which costs money and takes time. For all these reasons people realize they are trading 

outside the normal, legal, commercial pharmaceutical market, so they do not expect to 

find ads in the daily newspaper or on the public billboards. Thus, email messages, not 

necessarily recognized as spam, are acceptable sources of ads for such products.Pump and Dump One popular spam topic is stocks, usually ones of which you have never heard—with 

good reason. Stocks of large companies, like IBM, Google, Nike, and Disney, move 

slowly because many shares are outstanding and many traders are willing to buy or sell 

at a price slightly above or below the current price. News, or even rumors, affecting 

one of these issues may raise or depress the price, but the price tends to stabilize when 

the news has been digested or the rumor has been confirmed or refuted. It is difficult to 

move the price by any significant amount.
Stocks of small issuers are often called “penny stocks,” because their prices are 
denominated in pennies, not in dollars, euros, or pounds. Penny stocks are quite vola-

tile. Because volume is low, strong demand can cause a large percentage increase in the 

price. A negative rumor can likewise cause a major drop in the price. 
The classic game is called pump and dump: A trader pumps—artificially inflates—
the stock price by rumors and a surge in activity. The trader then dumps it when it gets 

high enough. The trader makes money as it goes up; the spam recipients lose money 

when the trader dumps holdings at the inflated prices, prices fall, and the buyers cannot 

find other willing buyers. Spam lets the trader pump up the stock price.
Advertising Some people claim there is no bad publicity. Even negative news about a company 

brings the company and its name to peoples’ attention. Thus, spam advertising a product 

or firm still fixes a name in recipients’ minds. Small, new companies need to get their 

name out; they can associate quality with that name later.
Thus advertising spam serves a purpose. Months after having received the spam you 
will have forgotten where you heard the company’s name. But having encountered it 

before in a spam message will make it familiar enough to reinforce the name recogni-

tion when you hear the name again later in a positive context.
Malicious Payload In Chapter 6 we describe botnets, armies of compromised computers that can be com-

mandeered to participate in any of a number of kinds of attacks: causing denial of service, 

sending spam, increasing advertising counts, even solving cryptographic puzzles. The 

bots are compromised computers with some unused computing cycles that can be rented.
How are these computers conscripted? Some are brought in by malware toolkit 
probes, as we describe in Chapter 3. Others are signed up when users click a link in an 