588 Chapter 9  
Privacyinformation to be made public. But most of us are not too sensitive about our shoe size, 
so we don’t normally protect that information if asked, or if we learn it about someone 

else. In most cases, we respect requests to protect someone’s sensitive information.
Here are examples (in no particular order) of types of data many people consider 
private.
• Identity: name, identifying information, the ownership of private data and ability 
to control its disclosure• Finances
: credit rating and status, bank details, outstanding loans, payment 
records, tax information• Legal
: criminal records, marriage history, civil suits
• Health: medical conditions, drug use, DNA, genetic predisposition to illnesses
• Opinions, preferences, and membership
: voting records, expressed opinions, 
membership in advocacy organizations, religion, political party, sexual prefer-

ence, reading habits, web browsing, favorite pastimes, close friends
• Biometrics: physical characteristics, polygraph results, fingerprints
• Documentary evidence
: surface mail, diaries, poems, correspondence, recorded 
thoughts• Privileged communications
: with professionals such as lawyers, accountants, 
doctors, counselors, and clergy
• Academic and employment information: school records, employment ratings
• Location data: general travel plans, current location, travel patterns
• Digital footprint: email, telephone calls, spam, instant messages, tweets, and 
other forms of electronic interaction, social networking history
Privacy is also affected by who you are. When you are in a room with people you 
don’t know, perhaps at a reception, someone may come up to you and say “So you 

are the man who baked the beautiful cake over there; I really appreciate your skills 

as a pastry chef.” It feels nice to get that kind of recognition. Conversely, if you are a 

news broadcaster on local television each night, you may prefer to have dinner at home 

instead of going to a restaurant; you may tire of having strangers rush up to say, “I see 

you all the time on TV.” (Many public personalities cherish the modicum of privacy 

they retain.) World champion athletes cannot avoid having their results made public, 

whereas you might not want everyone to know how poorly you finished in your last ath-

letic event. Culture also influences 

what people consider sensitive; for 

example, discussing sexual encoun-

ters or salary information may be 

permissible in one culture but not in 

another.
In general, a person’s privacy expectations depend on context: who is affected, how 
that person feels about publicity, and what the prevailing norm of privacy is.
What one person considers private 
is that person’s decision: There is no 

universal standard of what is private.
