 Section 11.1  Protecting Programs and Data 
711  The area of copyright protection applied to computer works continues to evolve and 
is subject to much interpretation by the courts. Therefore, it is not certain what aspects 

of a computer work are subject to copyright. Courts have ruled that a computer menu 

design can be copyrighted but that “look and feel” (such as the Microsoft Windows user 

interface) cannot. But is not the menu design part of the look and feel?
Although copyright protection can be applied to computer works, the copyright con-
cept was conceived before the electronic age, and thus the protection may be less than 

we desire. Copyrights do not address all the critical computing system elements that 

require protection. For example, a programmer might want to protect an algorithm, not 

the way that algorithm was expressed in a particular programming language. Unfor-

tunately, it may be difficult to obtain copyright protection for an algorithm, at least 

as copyright law is currently interpreted. Because the copyright laws are evolving, we 

must also take care when copyrights are used as excuses, as we see in Sidebar 11-2.
PatentsPatents
 are unlike copyrights in that they protect inventions, tangible objects, or 
ways to make them, not works of the mind. The distinction between patents and 

copyrights is that patents were intended to apply to the results of science, technology, 

and engineering, whereas copyrights were meant to cover works in the arts, literature, 

and written scholarship. A patent can protect a “new and useful process, machine, 

manufacture, or composition of matter.” The U.S. law excludes “newly discovered 

laws of nature . . . [and] mental processes.” Thus “2
24” is not a proper subject 
for a patent because it is a law of nature. Similarly, that expression is in the public 

domain and would thus be unsuitable for a copyright. Finally, you can argue that 

mathematics is purely mental, just ideas. Nobody has ever seen or touched a two, 

two horses, yes, but not just a two. 

A patent is designed to protect the 

device or process for 
carrying out 
an idea, not the idea itself.SIDEBAR 11-2 Inappropriate Reference to Copyright Law
Sometimes vendors refer to copyright law inappropriately, to discourage 
customers from returning a software package. Kaner and Pels [KAN98] 

explain that some companies do not want to be bothered dealing with 

returns, especially when the software package it has sold turns out to be 

defective. The company may publish a policy, posted on the store wall, 

window, or web site, noting that it cannot accept returns because doing 

so would violate the copyright act. But in fact the act says nothing about 

returns. It restricts only software rentals. The case analysis for the lawsuit 

between Central Point Software, Inc., and Global Software and Accesso-

ries, Inc., (resolved in 1995) notes that giving a refund does not turn the 

sale into a rental.
Patents protect inventions, tangible 
objects, not their design or idea.