84 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
As execution continues, the process may call a subprocedure, passing some of the 
objects to which it has access as arguments to the subprocedure. The domain of the sub-

procedure is not necessarily the same as that of its calling procedure; in fact, a calling 

procedure may pass only some of its objects to the subprocedure, and the subprocedure 
may have access rights to other objects not accessible to the calling procedure, as shown 

in Figure 2-17. The caller may also pass only some of its access rights for the objects it 

passes to the subprocedure. For example, a procedure might pass to a subprocedure the 

right to read but not to modify a particular data value.
Because each capability identifies a single object in a domain, the collection of capa-
bilities defines the domain. When a process calls a subprocedure and passes certain 

objects to the subprocedure, the operating system forms a stack of all the capabilities 
of the current procedure. The operating system then creates new capabilities for the 

subprocedure.Operationally, capabilities are a straightforward way to keep track of the access 
rights of subjects to objects during execution. The capabilities are backed up by a more 

comprehensive table, such as an access control matrix or an access control list. Each 

time a process seeks to use a new object, the operating system examines the master list 

of objects and subjects to determine whether the object is accessible. If so, the operating 
system creates a capability for that object.Capabilities must be stored in memory inaccessible to normal users. One way of 
accomplishing this is to store capabilities in segments not pointed at by the user’s seg-

ment table or to enclose them in protected memory as from a pair of base/bounds regis-

ters. Another approach is to use a tagged architecture machine to identify capabilities as 

structures requiring protection.Domain of MAINStored dataobjects Domain of SUBCode ofSUB Call SUBCode ofMAIN FilesFilesDevicesStored dataobjects DevicesFIGURE 2-17 Passing Objects to a Domain
