654 Chapter 10  
Management and IncidentsSIDEBAR 10-1 Who Is Responsible for Using Security?
We put a lot of responsibility on the user: Apply these patches, don’t down-
load unknown code, keep sensitive material private, change your password 

frequently, don’t forget your umbrella. We are all fairly technology savvy, so 

we take in stride messages like “fatal error.” (A neighbor once called in a 

panic, fearing that her entire machine and all its software data were about 

to go up in a puff of electronic smoke because she had received a “fatal 

error” message; I explained calmly that the message was perhaps a bit 

melodramatic.)But that neighbor raises an important point: How can we expect peo-
ple to use their computers securely when that is so hard to do? Take, for 

example, the various steps necessary in securing a wireless access point 

(see Chapter 6): Use WPA or WPA2, not WEP; set the access point into non-

broadcast mode, not open; choose a random 128-bit number for an initial 

value. Whitten and Tygar [WHI99] list four points critical to users’ security: 

users must be• aware of the security of tasks they need to perform
• able to figure out how to perform those tasks successfully

• prevented from making dangerous errors

• sufficiently comfortable with the technology to continue using it
Whitten and Tygar conclude that the popular PGP product, which has 
a fairly good user interface, is not usable enough to provide effective secu-

rity for most computer users. Furnell [FUR05] reached a similar conclusion 

about the security features in Microsoft Word.
The field of human–computer interaction (HCI) is mature, guidance 
materials are available, and numerous good examples exist. Why, then, 

are security settings hidden on a sub-sub-tab and written in highly techni-

cal jargon? We cannot expect users to participate in security enforcement 

unless they can understand what they should do.A leader in the HCI field, Ben Shneiderman counsels that the human–
computer interface should be, in his word, fun. Citing work others have 

done on computer game interfaces, Shneiderman notes that such inter-

faces satisfy needs for challenge, curiosity, and fantasy. He then argues 

that computer use must “(1) provide the right functions so that users can 

accomplish their goals, (2) offer usability plus reliability to prevent frustra-

tion from undermining the fun, and (3) engage users with fun-features.” 

[SHN04] One can counter that security functionality is serious, unlike computer games or web browsers. Still, this does not relieve us from the need to make 

the interface consistent, informative, empowering, and error preventing.
