366 Chapter 6  
NetworksPhysical ReplayFinally, for a physical example, think of security cameras monitoring a space, for exam-
ple, the door to a bank vault. Guards in a remote control room watch video monitors 

to detect unauthorized access to the door. An attacker can feed an innocent image to 

the monitors. The guards are left looking at the innocent image, during which time the 

attacker has unmonitored access to the bank vault. This ruse was featured in the film 

Ocean’s 11
. Similar attacks can be used against biometric authentication (for example, 
the rubber fingerprint attack described in Chapter 2). A similar attack would involve 

training the camera on a picture of the room under surveillance, then replaying a picture 

while the thief moves undetected throughout the vault.
As these examples show, replay attacks can circumvent ordinary identification, 
authentication, and confidentiality defenses, and thereby allow the attacker to initiate 

and carry on an interchange under the guise of the victim. Sequence numbers help coun-

ter replay attacks.Modification Attacks in GeneralAll these attacks have involved some aspect of integrity. Remember the range of prop-
erties covered by the general concept of integrity; we repeat them from Chapter 1 for 

reference:• precise• accurate
• unmodified

• modified only in acceptable ways

• modified only by authorized people

• modified only by authorized processes

• consistent
• internally consistent

• meaningful and usable
Protecting these different properties requires different countermeasures, including 
tools, protocols, and cryptography. In previous chapters we presented some of these 

approaches, and now we build on those earlier methods.
Interruption: Loss of ServiceThe final class of network attacks we consider involves availability, the third leg of the 

C-I-A triad. We are all familiar with how frustrating it is to lose access to an important 

service, as when the electricity fails or a telephone connection is cut. Suddenly we 

notice all the ways we depended on that service as we wait anxiously for the repair crew.
Networks, and especially the Internet, have solidly assured service. From the earli-
est designs for the Internet, redundancy and fault tolerance were important character-

istics, and the robustness remains. In part this strength is due to the mesh architecture 

of the Internet. The so-called last mile, the final connection between a host and the 
