 Section 8.4  Cloud Identity Management 
573  university credentials, and see a list of links to the classes they’re registered for. When 
they change their passwords on the university system, the password effectively changes 

on the cloud provider system, too. And when students graduate, they automatically lose 

access to the LMS.OAuthWhereas SAML is designed to handle authentication, authorization, and single sign-on 
for users and systems, OAuth
 [HAR12] was built to handle a different aspect of FIdM: 
SIDEBAR 8-4 Signing for Anyone
In 2012, a group of German researchers announced that they had discov-
ered a way to trick most SAML implementations into accepting fraudulent 

Assertions. In a paper they delivered at Usenix Security ’12 [SOM12], 

researchers Juraj Somorovsky, Andreas Mayer, Jorg Schwenk, Marco 

Kampmann, and Meiko Jensen described their novel XML Signature wrap-

ping attack. To start the attack, the attacker needs to obtain a signed SAML 

message from an IdP; given the nature of SAML, this is not difficult. Once 

the attackers obtain the signed message, their goal is to add Assertions to 

the message in such a way that1.  The SP will process all of the Assertions and act on them; and
2.  The SP will not include the new Assertions in the digital signature 
verification, that is, the digital signature verification will pass because 

it will only be verified against the original SAML message contents.The researchers tested different versions of the attack against 14 
SAML implementations. Most of their effort was focused on moving both the 

original SAML message content and the new Assertions into various per-

mutations within a new SAML document. Their goal was to discover which 
permutations allowed the signature verification to pass, which permuta-

tions allowed the new Assertions to be processed, and which permutations 

allowed both to happen simultaneously.
Of the 14 implementations they tested—including the most prevalent 
ones in use at the time—the researchers found that 12 were vulnerable to 

some version of this attack, and could therefore be misled into allowing an 

attacker to impersonate any legitimate user. The researchers did not argue 

that this was a vulnerability in the SAML specification or XMLDSig, exactly, 

but rather argued that the root cause of the vulnerability was the complexity 

of the standards. There is a valuable lesson here: Just because the speci-

fication is secure doesn’t mean that it lends itself to being implemented 

securely.
The story has a happy ending. The researchers worked closely 
with the security teams at all 12 affected companies, and in August 2012 

reported that all the vulnerabilities they had identified had been fixed.
