234 Chapter 4  
The Web—User Side
look at security issues for end-users, usually involving browsers or web sites and usu-
ally directed maliciously against the user.
4.1 BROWSER ATTACKS
Assailants go after a browser to obtain sensitive information, such as account numbers 

or authentication passwords; to entice the user, for example, using pop-up ads; or to 

install malware. There are three attack vectors against a browser:
• Go after the operating system so it will impede the browser’s correct and secure 
functioning.• Tackle the browser or one of its components, add-ons, or plug-ins so its activity 
is altered.• Intercept or modify communication to or from the browser.
We address operating system issues in Chapter 5 and network communications in 
Chapter 6. We begin this section by looking at vulnerabilities of browsers and ways to 

prevent such attacks.
Browser Attack Types
Because so many people (some of them relatively naïve or gullible) use them, browsers 

are inviting to attackers. A paper book is just what it appears; there is no hidden agent 

that can change the text on a page depending on who is reading. Telephone, television, 

and radio are pretty much the same: A signal from a central point to a user’s device is 

usually uncorrupted or, if it is changed, the change is often major and easily detected, 

such as static or a fuzzy image. Thus, people naturally expect the same fidelity from a 

browser, even though browsers are programmable devices and signals are exposed to 

subtle modification during communication.
In this section we present several attacks passed through browsers.
Man-in-the-Browser
A man-in-the-browser 
attack is an example of malicious code that has infected a 
browser. Code inserted into the browser can read, copy, and redistribute anything the 

user enters in a browser. The threat 

here is that the attacker will inter-

cept and reuse credentials to access 
financial accounts and other sensi-

tive data.
In January 2008, security research-
ers led by Liam Omurchu of Symantec detected a new Trojan horse, which they called 
SilentBanker. This code linked to a victim’s browser as an add-on or browser helper 

object; in some versions it listed itself as a plug-in to display video. As a helper object, 

it set itself to intercept internal browser calls, including those to receive data from 

the keyboard, send data to a URL, generate or import a cryptographic key, read a file 
Man-in-the-browser: Trojan horse that 

intercepts data passing through the 

browser
