 Section 9.5  Privacy on the Web 
631  might you convince her to stay? Or come back another time? Hardware stores do not go 
through this analysis: a $20 hammer is priced at $20 today, tomorrow, and next week, 

for everyone, unless it’s on sale.
Not true online. Remember, online you do not see the price on the shelf; you see only 
the price quoted to you on the page showing the hammer. Unless someone sitting at a 

nearby computer is looking at the same hammers, you wouldn’t know if someone else 

was offered a price offer different from $20. 
According to a study done by Joseph Turow et al. [TUR05] of the Annenberg Public 
Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania School of Communications, price dis-

crimination occurs and is likely to expand as merchants gather more information about 

us. The most widely cited example is Amazon.com, which priced a DVD at 30 percent, 

35 percent, and 40 percent off list price concurrently to different customers. One cus-

tomer reported deleting his Amazon.com tracking cookie and having the price on the 

website drop
 from $26.00 to $22.00 because the website thought he was a new cus-
tomer instead of a returning customer. Apparently, customer loyalty is worth less than 

finding a new target. Turow’s study involved interviews of 1500 U.S. adults about web 

pricing and buying issues. Among the significant findings were these:
• Fifty-three percent correctly thought most online merchants did not give them 
the right to correct incorrect information obtained about them.• Fifty percent correctly thought most online merchants did not give them the 
chance to erase information collected about them.• Thirty-eight percent correctly thought it was legal for an online merchant to 
charge different people different prices at the same time of day.
• Thirty-six percent correctly thought it was legal for a supermarket to sell buying 
habit data.• Thirty-two percent correctly thought a price-shopping travel service such as 
Orbitz or Expedia did not have to present the lowest price found as one of the 

choices for a trip.• Twenty-nine percent correctly thought a video store was not forbidden to sell 
information on what videos a customer has rented.More recently, David Streitfeld [STR14] described an on-going spat between Ama-
zon and Hachette, the large book publisher. “Among Amazon’s tactics against Hachette, 

some of which it has been employing for months, are charging more for its books and 

suggesting that readers might enjoy instead a book from another author. If customers 

for some reason persist and buy a 

Hachette book anyway, Amazon is 

saying it will take weeks to deliver 

it.” In this case, Amazon was seek-

ing to squeeze Hachette into giving 

Amazon better terms for the sale of 

Hachette books on Amazon’s sites.
A fair market occurs when seller and buyer have complete knowledge: If both can 
see and agree with the basis for a decision, each knows the other party is playing fairly. 
Web merchants are under no obligation 

to price products the same for all 

customers, or the same as other sellers 
price the same product.
