 Section 6.5  Distributed Denial-of-Service 
429  Rent-A-BotPeople who infect machines to turn them into bots are called botmasters. A botmaster 
may own (in the sense of control) hundreds or thousands of bots. Because the infected 

machines belong to unsuspecting users who do use them for real computing, these bots 
are not always available. Sometimes the real owners turn off their machines, disconnect 

them from the Internet, or are using them so intensively that little capacity is left to 

serve as a bot. Much of the time, however, these machines are quiet, readily available 

for malicious work.
A botmaster often has two uses for the botnet: First, the botnet should be available 
for attacks when the botmaster wants to go after a victim. As noted in a previous sidebar 

in this chapter, attacks can go on for hours. However, denial-of-service activity tends 

to be targeted, not random, so one botmaster is unlikely to have an unlimited number 

of victims against which to direct the bots. Thus, to bring in a little income, botmasters 

also sometimes rent out their botnets to others. Researcher Dancho Danchev [DAN13] 
The updated Conficker randomly selected 500 domain names, but 
appended to the name one of 116 suffixes or top-level domains, like .com, 

.edu, .org, as well as country codes such as .us, .fr, .cz, .br, .ru. These 

country-code domain suffixes are under control of individual countries, so 

getting permission to close down one of those domains is administratively 

more difficult than a .com address. It seems, however, as if those domain 

names were a red herring, to delude and perhaps occupy analysts.
Shortly after the 15 March 2009 code update, Conficker entirely 
changed its model for code updates: Instead of each bot fetching its 

updates from a central command-and-control server, the bots communi-

cated updates among themselves by a peer-to-peer networking strategy. 

Finding which of millions of communicating Conficker bots have the latest 
code release is a hopeless task for researchers.
The version that appeared in late December 2008 uses a new hash 
function, MD6, that had just been published on Ron Rivest’s M.I.T. website 

in October 2008, as a candidate for the U.S. National Institute of Standards 

and Technology (NIST) new secure-hash standard. Thus, in roughly two 

months’ time, Conficker’s authors noticed this new algorithm’s publication 

and incorporated it into the evolving development of Conficker. Even when 

analysts can reverse-engineer the code to determine how it operates, they 

cannot craft a so-called inoculation package, modified code that would 

cause systems infected by Conficker to remove the infection, because they 

cannot make the code have the correct cryptographic checksum.
Since 2008 three more major versions have appeared. The authors 
of Conficker have been resilient and resourceful, countering various 

attempts to exterminate it. Its primary objective seems to have been stay-

ing power, remaining active so it can propagate and spread its payload. 

Its latest version (E) carries the Waladec spam bot, and also an antivirus 

scareware agent.
