 Section 2.1  Authentication 
55  Problems with Use of Biometrics
Biometrics come with several problems:
• Biometrics are relatively 
new
, and some people find their use 
intrusive. For 
example, people in some cultures are insulted by having to submit to finger-

printing, because they think that only criminals are fingerprinted. Hand geome-

try and face recognition (which can be done from a camera across the room) are 

scarcely invasive, but people have real concerns about peering into a laser beam 

or sticking a finger into a slot. (See [SCH06a] for some examples of people 

resisting biometrics.)• Biometric recognition devices are 
costly, although as the devices become more 
popular, their cost per device should go down. Still, outfitting every user’s 

workstation with a reader can be expensive for a large company with many 

employees.
• Biometric readers and comparisons can become a 
single point of failure
. Con-sider a retail application in which a biometric recognition is linked to a payment 

scheme: As one user puts it, “If my credit card fails to register, I can always pull 

out a second card, but if my fingerprint is not recognized, I have only that one 

finger.” (Fingerprint recognition is specific to a single finger; the pattern of one 

finger is not the same as another.) Manual laborers can actually rub off their 

fingerprints over time, and a sore or irritation may confound a fingerprint reader. 

Forgetting a password is a user’s fault; failing biometric authentication is not.
• All biometric readers use 
sampling and establish a 
threshold
 for acceptance of 
a close match. The device has to sample the biometric, measure often hundreds 

of key points, and compare that set of measurements with a template. Features 

vary slightly from one reading to the next, for example, if your face is tilted, if 

you press one side of a finger more than another, or if your voice is affected by 

a sinus infection. Variation reduces accuracy.
• Although equipment accuracy is improving, 
false readings 
still occur. We label 
a false positive
 or 
false accept a reading that is accepted when it should be 
rejected (that is, the authenticator does not match) and a false negative
 or 
false reject 
one that rejects when it should accept. Often, reducing a false positive 
rate increases false negatives, and vice versa. Sidebar 2-6 explains why we 

can never eliminate all false positives and negatives. The consequences for a 

false negative are usually less than for a false positive, so an acceptable system 

may have a false positive 

rate of 0.001 percent but a 

false negative rate of 1 per-

cent. However, if the popu-

lation is large and the asset 

extremely valuable, even 

these small percentages can 

lead to catastrophic results.False positive: incorrectly confirming an 

identity. 
False negative: incorrectly denying an 
identity.
