668 Chapter 10  
Management and Incidents10.4 RISK ANALYSIS
Next we turn to a management activity at the heart of security planning. 
Risk analysis is an organized process for identifying the most significant risks in a computing envi-

ronment, determining the impact of those risks, and weighing the desirability of apply-
ing various controls against those risks.
Good, effective security planning includes a careful risk analysis. A 
risk is a poten-
tial problem that the system or its users may experience. We distinguish a risk from 

other project events by looking for three things, as suggested by Rook [ROO93]:
• A loss associated with an event
. The event must generate a negative effect: com-
promised security, lost time, diminished quality, lost money, lost control, lost 

understanding, and so on. This loss is called the 
risk impact.• The likelihood that the event will occur
. The probability of occurrence associ-
ated with each risk is measured from 0 (impossible) to 1 (certain). When the risk 

probability is 1, we say we have a problem.
• The degree to which we can change the outcome
. We must determine what, if 
anything, we can do to avoid the impact or at least reduce its effects. 
Risk control
 involves a set of actions to 

reduce or eliminate the risk. 
Many of the security controls 

we describe in this book are 
examples of risk control.
SIDEBAR 10-3 Continuedhad created an extra account being charged against Stoll’s projects, but 
the monthly bill was not being delivered to Stoll (or to anyone else, because 

the account had no billing address). Coincidentally, Stoll received a report 

that someone from his site had been breaking into military computers, but 

he didn’t initially connect these two data points.
Stoll removed the unauthorized account but found that the attacker 
remained, having acquired system administrator privileges. Thinking the 

attacker was a student at a nearby university, Stoll and his colleagues 

wanted to catch the attacker in the act. They soon found the flaw the 

attacker exploited but decided to keep the culprit engaged so they could 
investigate his actions, using an elaborate masquerade in which Stoll con-
trolled everything the attacker could see and do [STO88, STO89]. Stoll’s 

trap was one of the first examples of a honeypot (introduced in Chapter 5).
After months of activity Stoll and authorities identified the attacker as a German agent named Markus Hess, recruited by the Soviet KGB. German 

authorities arrested Hess, who was convicted of espionage and sentenced 

to one to three years in prison.
Accounting records that did not balance—off by just $0.75—led to 
investigation and conviction of an international spy. When you begin to 

investigate an incident, you seldom know what its scope will be.Risk control is a set of actions to reduce 
or manage risk.