88 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
The original form of a message is known as 
plaintext, and the encrypted form is 
called ciphertext. This relationship is shown in Figure 2-18. Think of encryption as a 
form of opaque paint that obscures 

or obliterates the plaintext, prevent-

ing it from being seen or interpreted 
accurately. Then, decryption is the 

process of peeling away the paint to 

reveal the original plaintext again.
We use a formal notation to describe the transformations between plaintext and 
ciphertext. For example, we write 
C  E(P) and P  D(C), where C represents the 
ciphertext, 
E is the encryption rule, 
P is the plaintext, and 
D is the decryption rule. What 
we seek is a cryptosystem for which P  D(E(P)). In other words, we want to be able 
to convert the plaintext message to ciphertext to protect it from an intruder, but we also 

want to be able to get the original message back so that the receiver can read it properly.
Encryption KeysA cryptosystem involves a set of rules for how to encrypt the plaintext and decrypt 
the ciphertext. The encryption and decryption rules, called 
algorithms, often use a 
device called a 
key
, denoted by K, so that the resulting ciphertext depends on the origi-
nal plaintext message, the algorithm, and the key value. We write this dependence as 

C  E(K, P). Essentially, 
E is a set of encryption algorithms, and the key 
K selects one specific algorithm from the set.
This process is similar to using mass-produced locks in houses. As a homeowner, 
you would pay dearly to contract with someone to invent and make a lock just for your 

house. In addition, you would not know whether a particular inventor’s lock was really 

solid or how it compared with those of other inventors. A better solution is to have a few 

well-known, well-respected companies producing standard locks that differ according 

to the (physical) key. Then, you and your neighbor might have the same brand and style 

of lock, but your key will open only your lock. In the same way, it is useful to have a 

few well-examined encryption algorithms for everyone to use, but differing keys would 

prevent someone from breaking into data you are trying to protect.
Sometimes the encryption and decryption keys are the same, so 
P  D(K,E(K,P)), meaning that the same key, 
K, is used both to encrypt a message and later to decrypt it. This form is called symmetric or single-key
 or secret
 key encryption because 
D and E Ciphertext: encrypted material; plaintext: material in intelligible formKey(Optional)OriginalPlaintextPlaintextCiphertextKey(Optional)EncryptionDecryptionFIGURE 2-18 Plaintext and Ciphertext
