32 Chapter 1  
Introduction• An attacker needs three things: method—the skill and knowledge to perform 
a successful attack; opportunity—time and access by which to attack; and 

motive—a reason to want to attack. Alas, none of these three is in short supply, 

which means attacks are inevitable.
In this chapter we have introduced the notions of threats and harm, vulnerabilities, 
attacks and attackers, and countermeasures. Attackers leverage threats that exploit vul-

nerabilities against valuable assets to cause harm, and we hope to devise countermea-

sures to eliminate means, opportunity, and motive. These concepts are the basis we need 

to study, understand, and master computer security. 
Countermeasures and controls can be applied to the data, the programs, the system, the physical devices, the communications links, the environment, and the personnel. 

Sometimes several controls are needed to cover a single vulnerability, but sometimes 

one control addresses many problems at once.
1.7 WHAT’S NEXT?
The rest of this book is organized around the major aspects or pieces of computer 

security. As you have certainly seen in almost daily news reports, computer security 

incidents abound. The nature of news is that failures are often reported, but seldom 

successes. You almost never read a story about hackers who tried to break into the com-

puting system of a bank but were foiled because the bank had installed strong, layered 

defenses. In fact, attacks repelled far outnumber those that succeed, but such good situ-

ations do not make interesting news items.
Still, we do not want to begin with examples in which security controls failed. 
Instead, in Chapter 2 we begin by giving you descriptions of three powerful and widely 

used security protection methods. We call these three our security toolkit, in part 

because they are effective but also because they are applicable. We refer to these tech-

niques in probably every other chapter of this book, so we want not only to give them a 

prominent position up front but also to help lodge them in your brain. Our three featured 

tools are identification and authentication, access control, and encryption.
After presenting these three basic tools we lead into domains in which computer secu-rity applies. We begin with the simplest computer situations, individual programs, and 

explore the problems and protections of computer code in Chapter 3. We also consider 

malicious code, such as viruses and Trojan horses (defining those terms along with other 

types of harmful programs). As you will see in other ways, there is no magic that can 

make bad programs secure or turn programmers into protection gurus. We do, however, 

point out some vulnerabilities that show up in computer code and describe ways to coun-

ter those weaknesses, both during program development and as a program executes.
Modern computing involves networking, especially using the Internet. We focus first 
on how networked computing affects individuals, primarily through browsers and other 

basic network interactions such as email. In Chapter 4 we look at how users can be 

tricked by skillful writers of malicious code. These attacks tend to affect the protection 

of confidentiality of users’ data and integrity of their programs.
