 Section 6.5  Distributed Denial-of-Service 
431  battle with the creators of Bagle and MyDoom, who produced better versions of their 
code, which led to new versions of NetSky, and so on, for a total of 30 separate strains 

of NetSky. According to one security expert, Mikko Hypponen of f-Secure, NetSky was 

more effective at reducing the flow of spam than anything that had happened in the U.S. 

Congress or courts. Unfortunately, it also consumed large amounts of system resources 

and bombarded numerous commercial clients with email. Later versions of the worm 

launched denial-of-service attacks against places Jaschen disliked. Two years after the 

virus’s release, it was still the most prevalent virus infection worldwide, according to 

security firm Sophos [SOP04].
Two months after releasing NetSky, on his eighteenth birthday, Jaschen wrote and 
released a highly destructive Internet-based virus named Sasser that forced computers 

to reboot constantly. He was arrested by German authorities, and convicted and sen-

tenced to a 31-month suspended sentence and three years’ probation.
Coping with DDoS AttacksDDoS attacks are not hard to prevent, at least in theory. Most bots are conscripted using 
well-known vulnerabilities, for which patches have been distributed for some time. 

Thus, if the entire world would just install patches in a timely manner, the DDoS threat 

would diminish. Some computer users, however, do not have legal copies of their operat-

ing systems and other software, so they cannot subscribe for and obtain patches through 

the manufacturers’ chains. Computer software is one of a small number of commodi-

ties, including illegal firearms and illicit drugs, in which the black market also affects 

legitimate consumers. DDoS attacks 

involve some talented programmers 

and analysts in a lucrative game of 

crafting intricate shields around 

creaky old mundane flaws. Until we 

eradicate the flaws, nothing around 

them will improve. That is the point 

where theory meets practice.Administrators can address ordinary DoS attacks by means of techniques such as 
tuning (adjusting the number of active servers), load balancing (evening the computing 

load across available servers), shunning (reducing service given to traffic from certain 

address ranges), and blacklisting (rejecting connections from certain addresses). These 

same techniques are used against DDoS attacks, applied on a larger scale and at the 

network perimeter. So far most DDoS attacks seem to have been to make a statement or 

focus attention, so after they go on for a while, the attacker concludes the point has been 

made and halts. Some attacks, such as the one described earlier in Sidebar 6-20, aim to 
extort money from the victims; as with other kinds of extortion attacks, paying the bribe 

may not stop the attack.This discussion of denial of service concludes our examination of the threats to 
which networked computing is vulnerable. Denial of service is a distinctive problem 

and requires its own countermeasures. Other network attacks involving interception and 

modification employ more well-known controls.
Bots are co-opted by an agent who 

exploits a vulnerability, typically one 

already known. Vulnerable machines 

can be discovered by scanning.
