81313Emerging Topics
In this chapter we raise some issues emerging in the field of computer security. By 
emerging we mean that these areas are starting to be recognized outside the security 

community, although we do not mean there are solutions or even approaches to the 
security problems. Instead we raise these as interesting things to watch over time. In 

this chapter we discuss the so-called Internet of Things (the trend toward embedding 

Internet-connected computing technology in new technology), economics of cybersecu-

rity, electronic voting, and what many call cyber warfare (use of computers in political 

conflicts).We also point out these are not new issues. In fact, we open the presentation of the 
Internet of Things with an example that occurred in the mid-1980s, and electronic vot-

ing has occurred around the world since at least the 1990s.
What brings a topic to this chapter is that it is unsettled: No consensus exists that 
we know what electronic voting technology to develop or even how to proceed. Is 

regulation the answer? Legislation? Market forces? Public demonstration? Academic 

research? Yes to all in certain situations. Consequently, we introduce several subjects 

and note some of the questions involved in whose answers you may very well be 

engaged. But we do not try to answer these questions now, because it is too early for 

answers. More understanding is needed, and we hope some of you, our readers, will 

take up these challenges, improve that understanding, and perhaps even devise effective 

policies and solutions over time.
As with many earlier security issues, technology and functionality are advancing at 
a rapid pace. As we have seen in earlier chapters, security concerns may not rise to the 

attention of the general public until there is a serious security issue, by which time the 
ability to integrate security techniques into the domain will have passed or been made 
In this chapter:• The Internet of Things

• Economics of cybersecurity

• Computerized elections

• Cyber warfare
