52 Chapter 2  
Toolbox: Authentication, Access Control, and Cryptography
Security Questions Instead of passwords, some companies use questions to which (presumably) only the 

right person would know the answer. Such questions include mother’s maiden name, 

street name from childhood, model of first automobile, and name of favorite teacher. 

The user picks relevant questions and supplies the answers when creating an identity.
The problem with such questions is that the answers to some can be determined with little difficulty, as was the case for Sarah Palin’s email account. With the number of 

public records available online, mother’s maiden name and street name are often avail-

able, and school friends could guess a small number of possible favorite teachers. Anitra 

Babic and colleagues [BAB09] documented the weakness of many of the supposedly 

secret question systems in current use. Joseph Bonneau and Sören Preibusch [BON10] 
SIDEBAR 2-5 Using Personal Patterns for Authentication
Lamandé [LAM10] reports that the GrIDSure authentication system (http://
www.gridsure.com) has been integrated into Microsoft’s Unified Access 

Gateway (UAG) platform. This system allows a user to authenticate herself 

with a one-time passcode based on a pattern of squares chosen from a 

grid. When the user wishes access, she is presented with a grid containing 

randomly assigned numbers; she then enters as her passcode the num-

bers that correspond to her chosen pattern. Because the displayed grid 

numbers change each time the grid is presented, the pattern enables the 

entered passcode to be a one-time code. GrIDSure is an attempt to scale 

a “user knowledge” approach from usability in the small to usability in the 

large. Many researchers (see, for example, [SAS07, BON08, and BID09]) 

have examined aspects of GrIDSure’s security and usability, with mixed 

results. It remains to be seen how the use of GrIDSure compares with the 

use of a collection of traditional passwords.
Similarly, the ImageShield product from Confident Technologies (www 
.confidenttechnologies.com) asks a user to enroll by choosing three cat-

egories from a list; the categories might be cats, cars, and flowers, for 

example. Then at authentication time, the user is shown a grid of pictures, 

some from the user’s categories and others not. Each picture has a 1-char-

acter letter or number. The user’s one-time access string is the characters 

attached to the images from the user’s preselected categories. So, if the 

pictures included a cat with label A, a flower with label 7, and seven other 

images, the user’s access value would be A7. The images, characters and 

positions change for each access, so the authenticator differs similarly.
Authentication schemes like this are based on simple puzzles that 
the user can solve easily but that an imposter would be unable to guess 

successfully. However, with novel authentication schemes, we have to be 

aware of the phenomenon of usability in the small and the large: Can a 

user remember squares on a grid and categories of pictures and a favorite 

vacation spot and the formula 2a
c and many other nonobvious things?