 Section 10.5  Dealing with Disaster 
695  SIDEBAR 10-9 Cost of Backup: A Business Decision
Data are no longer stored only on large mainframe computers. Your organi-
zation’s key information could reside on your laptop, on remote servers, or 

even on your smartphone. The sheer number of devices holding important 

data suggests that the cost of regular backups could be extremely high.
Deciding whether, when, and how often to back up is an essential 
business decision. Resources spent on backups, including support staff, 

could be spent instead on providing products and services to customers. 

So is it better for an organization to take its chances and deal with prob-

lems only when they happen? David Smith’s research [SMI03] suggests 

that the answer is no. Smith estimated that 80 million personal computers 
and over 60 million desktop computers were in use by U.S. businesses in 

2003. In a different analysis, market intelligence firm IDC estimated that in 

2010 40 percent of small-to-medium-sized enterprises did not back up their 

data, and of the 60 percent who did, 40 percent to 50 percent of the back-

ups were incomplete or unrecoverable.
Smith points out that even when data can be recovered, substantial 
costs are involved. Using the average salary of a computer support spe-

cialist and estimates of recovery time, he suggests that for each incident, 

businesses pay $170 per loss for each internal specialist, and twice that 

for external consultants to perform the recovery. Lost productivity for each 

employee affected is estimated to be over $200, and the expected value of 

the data lost is $3,400. Smith suggests that data loss costs U.S. businesses 
over $18 billion a year. Although these figures are somewhat dated, we can 

extrapolate using a 68 percent increase in the cost of a data loss (
Comput-erworld 20 March 2012) from 2007 to 2011.
There is another way to think about the cost of data loss. Suppose 
an organization loses the data for 100,000 customers, and it costs $20 per 
customer (a very low estimate) for organization personnel to contact each 

customer and elicit replacement data. That’s $2 million that could have 

been spent on more important business functions. So the cost of backing 

up the 100,000 records should be less than the $2 million cost to replace 

them. In fact, this analysis underestimates the costs in other ways: When 

customers find out about the data loss, they may switch to a competitor, or 

the company’s stock price may suffer. 
Thus, each organization must weigh the cost of its potential losses 
against the costs of doing regular backups. There are other alternatives, 

such as insurance. But when data are essential to the organization’s viabil-

ity, insurance may not be a realistic option.
Major installations may perform revolving backups
, in which the last several back-
ups are kept. Each time a backup is done, the oldest backup is replaced with the newest 

one. There are two reasons to perform revolving backups: to avoid problems with cor-

rupted media (so that all is not lost if one of the disks is bad) and to allow users or devel-

opers to retrieve old versions of a file. Another form of backup is a 
selective backup
, in 