˜˜˚˛˚˜˜˜
˜˜
whether a hazard is a serious threat to the system or environment. The analysis also 
provides a basis for deciding on how to manage the risk associated with the hazard.For each hazard, the outcome of the analysis and classification process is a state-ment of acceptability. This is expressed in terms of risk, where the risk takes into 

account the likelihood of an accident and its consequences. There are three risk cat-
egories that are used in hazard assessment:1. Intolerable risks in safety-critical systems are those that threaten human life. 
The system must be designed so that such hazards either cannot arise or, that if 
they do, features in the system will ensure that they are detected before they 

cause an accident. In the case of the insulin pump, an intolerable risk is that an 
overdose of insulin should be delivered.2. As low as reasonably practical (ALARP) risks 
are those that have less serious 

consequences or that are serious but have a very low probability of occurrence. 

The system should be designed so that the probability of an accident arising 

because of a hazard is minimized, subject to other considerations such as cost and 

delivery. An ALARP risk for an insulin pump might be the failure of the hardware 

monitoring system. The consequences of this failure are, at worst, a short-term 

insulin underdose. This situation would not lead to a serious accident.3. Acceptable risks are those where the associated accidents normally result in 

minor damage. System designers should take all possible steps to reduce 

ﬁacceptableﬂ risks, as long as these measures do not significantly increase costs, 
delivery time, or other non-functional system attributes. An acceptable risk in 
the case of the insulin pump might be the risk of an allergic reaction arising in 
the user. This reaction usually causes only minor skin irritation. It would not be 
worth using special, more expensive materials in the device to reduce this risk.Figure 12.
3 shows these three regions. The width of the triangle reflects the 
costs of ensuring that risks do not result in incidents or accidents. The highest 
Unacceptable 
region
Risk cannot be tolerated
Risk tolerated only if
risk reduction is impractical

or excessively expens
iveAcceptableregion
Negligible risk
ALARP
region
Figure 12.3 The risk triangle