˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Figure 9.
12 shows an approximate distribution of maintenance costs, based on 
data from the most recent survey available (Davidsen and Krogstie 2010). This study compared maintenance cost distribution with a number of earlier studies from 1980 
to 2005. The authors found that the distribution of maintenance costs had changed 
very little over 30 years. Although we don™t have more recent data, this suggests that 
this distribution is still largely correct. Repairing system faults is not the most expen-
sive maintenance activity. Evolving the system to cope with new environments and 

new or changed requirements generally consumes most maintenance effort.Experience has shown that it is usually more expensive to add new features to a system during maintenance than it is to implement the same features during initial 
development. The reasons for this are:1. A new team has to understand the program being maintained. After a system has been delivered, it is normal for the development team to be broken up and 
for people to work on new projects. The new team or the individuals responsible 
for system maintenance do not understand the system or the background to sys
-
tem design decisions. They need to spend time understanding the existing sys-
tem before they can implement changes to it.2. Separating maintenance and development means there is no incentive for the 

development team to write maintainable software. The contract to maintain a 

system is usually separate from the system development contract. A different 

company, rather than the original software developer, may be responsible for 

software maintenance. In those circumstances, a development team gets no ben-
efit from investing effort to make the software maintainable. If a development 

team can cut corners to save effort during development it is worthwhile for them 

to do so, even if this means that the software is more difficult to change in future.3. Program maintenance work is unpopular. Maintenance has a poor image among 
software engineers. It is seen as a less skilled process than system development Functionality additionor modification(58%)Fault repair(24%)Environmental adaptation(19%)Figure 9.12  Maintenance effort 
distribution 