˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Requirements specification is the process of writing down the user and system require-ments in a requirements document. Ideally, the user and system requirements should 
be clear, unambiguous, easy to understand, complete, and consistent. In practice, this 

is almost impossible to achieve. Stakeholders interpret the requirements in different 

ways, and there are often inherent conflicts and inconsistencies in the requirements.User requirements are almost always written in natural language supplemented 
by appropriate diagrams and tables in the requirements document. System require-
ments may also be written in natural language, but other notations based on forms, 
graphical, or mathematical system models can also be used. Figure 4.11 summarizes 
possible notations for writing system requirements.The user requirements for a system should describe the functional and nonfunctional 
requirements so that they are understandable by system users who don™t have detailed 

technical knowledge. Ideally, they should specify only the external behavior of the sys-
tem. The requirements document should not include details of the system architecture 

or design. Consequently, if you are writing user requirements, you should not use soft
-
ware jargon, structured notations, or formal notations. You should write user require-
ments in natural language, with simple tables, forms, and intuitive diagrams.Figure 4.10 Scenario for˜uploading photos 
in˜KidsTakePicsUploading photos to KidsTakePicsInitial assumption: A user or a group of users have one or more digital photographs to be uploaded to the picture-sharing site. These photos are saved on either a tablet or a laptop computer. They have successfully 
logged on to KidsTakePics.Normal: The user chooses to upload photos and is prompted to select the photos to be uploaded on the computer and to select the project name under which the photos will be stored. Users should also be given the 
option of inputting keywords that should be associated with each uploaded photo. Uploaded photos are named 
by creating a conjunction of the user name with the filename of the photo on the local computer.On completion of the upload, the system automatically sends an email to the project moderator, asking them to check new content, and generates an on-screen message to the user that this checking has been done.What can go wrong: No moderator is associated with the selected project. An email is automatically generated to the school administrator asking them to nominate a project moderator. Users should be informed of a possible 
delay in making their photos visible.Photos with the same name have already been uploaded by the same user. The user should be asked if he or she wishes to re-upload the photos with the same name, rename the photos, or cancel the upload. If users choose to 
re-upload the photos, the originals are overwritten. If they choose to rename the photos, a new name is 
automatically generated by adding a number to the existing filename.Other activities: The moderator may be logged on to the system and may approve photos as they are uploaded.System state on completion: User is logged on. The selected photos have been uploaded and assigned a status 
ﬁawaiting moderation.ﬂ Photos are visible to the moderator and to the user who uploaded them.