˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜process. Rather, the user has to prioritize that change and, if it is high priority, decide what system features that were planned for the next iteration should be dropped for 

the change to be implemented.The problem with this approach is that users are not necessarily the best people to decide on whether or not a requirements change is cost-effective. In systems with 
multiple stakeholders, changes will benefit some stakeholders and not others. It is 

often better for an independent authority, who can balance the needs of all stake
-holders, to decide on the changes that should be accepted.

Requirements management planning is concerned with establishing how a set of 

evolving requirements will be managed. During the planning stage, you have to 

decide on a number of issues:1. Requirements identification Each requirement must be uniquely identified so 
that it can be cross-referenced with other requirements and used in traceability 
assessments.2. A change management process 
This is the set of activities that assess the impact 

and cost of changes. I discuss this process in more detail in the following section.3. Traceability policies These policies define the relationships between each require-
ment and between the requirements and the system design that should be recorded. 

The traceability policy should also define how these records should be maintained.4. Tool support Requirements management involves the processing of large 

amounts of information about the requirements. Tools that may be used range 
from specialist requirements management systems to shared spreadsheets and 

simple database systems.Requirements management needs automated support, and the software tools for 
this should be chosen during the planning phase. You need tool support for:1. Requirements storage The requirements should be maintained in a secure, man-aged data store that is accessible to everyone involved in the requirements engi
-
neering process.Enduring and volatile requirementsSome requirements are more susceptible to change than others. Enduring requirements are the requirements 
that are associated with the core, slow-to-change activities of an organization. Enduring requirements are asso-

ciated with fundamental work activities. Volatile requirements are more likely to change. They are usually asso-

ciated with supporting activities that reflect how the organization does its work rather than the work itself.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/changing-requirements/