˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜Testing can be very difficult and expensive as, obviously, the testing cannot be carried 
out on an operational system. The system and its environment may have to be duplicated 
for testing, and staff may have to be released from their normal responsibilities to work 

on the test system. To reduce costs, you can use ﬁdesk testing.ﬂ The testing team assumes 

a problem has occurred and tests their reactions to it; they do not simulate that problem 

on a real system. While this approach can provide useful information about system resil-
ience, it is less effective than testing in discovering deficiencies in the resilience plan.As an example of this approach, let us look at resilience engineering for the 
Mentcare system. To recap, this system is used to support clinicians treating patients 
in a variety of locations who have mental health problems. It provides patient infor-
mation and records of consultations with doctors and specialist nurses. It includes a 
number of checks that can flag patients who may be potentially dangerous or sui-
cidal. Figure 14.10 shows the architecture of this system.The system is consulted by doctors and nurses before and during a consultation, and patient information is updated after the consultation. To ensure the effectiveness 
of clinics, the business resilience requirements are that the critical system services 
are available during normal working hours, that the patient data should not be per-
manently damaged or lost by a system failure or cyberattack, and that patient infor-
mation should not be released to unauthorized people.Two critical services in the system have to be maintained:1. An information service that provides information about a patient™s current diag-
nosis and treatment plan.2. A warning service that highlights patients who could pose a danger to others or 

to themselves.Notice that the critical service is not the availability of the complete patient 
record. Doctors and nurses only need to go back to previous treatments occasionally, MentcareclientMentcare serverPatient database
MentcareclientMentcareclientNetworkFigure 14.10 The clientŒserver architecture 
of the Mentcare system 