˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜from the equipment™s environment. For example, an anti-skid braking system in a 
car monitors the car™s wheels and brake system (the system™s environment). It looks 
for signs that the wheels are skidding when brake pressure is applied. If this is the 
case, the system adjusts the brake pressure to stop the wheels locking and reduce the 
likelihood of a skid.Control systems may make use of the Environmental Control pattern, which is a 
general control pattern that includes sensor and actuator processes. This pattern is 
described in Figure 21.9, with the process architecture shown in Figure 21.10. A 

variant of this pattern leaves out the display process. This variant is used in situa-
tions where user intervention is not required or where the rate of control is so high 
that a display would not be meaningful.This pattern can be the basis for a control system design with an instantiation 
of the Environmental Control pattern for each actuator (or actuator type) being 

controlled. You then optimize the design to reduce the number of processes. For 

example, you may combine actuator monitoring and actuator control processes, 

or you may have a single monitoring and control process for several actuators. 

The optimizations that you choose depend on the timing requirements. You may 

need to monitor sensors more frequently than you send control signals, in which 

case it may be impractical to combine control and monitoring processes. There 

may also be direct feedback between the actuator control and the actuator moni-
toring process. This allows fine-grain control decisions to be made by the actua-
tor control process.You can see how this pattern is used in Figure 
21.11, which shows an example of a 
controller for a car braking system. The starting point for the design is associating an 

instance of the pattern with each actuator type in the system. In this case, there are four 

actuators, with each controlling the brake on one wheel. The individual sensor processes 

are combined into a single wheel-monitoring process that monitors the sensors on all 
Analysisprocess
Wheel
monitorPedal
monitorBrake 4processBrake 1processBrake 2processBrake 3processBrake 1Brake 2Brake 3Brake 4Pedal pressure sensor
Wheel sensors
Figure 21.11
 Control 
system architecture 
 for an anti-skid 
 braking system 
