˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
The fundamental notions of recognition, resistance, and recovery were the basis of early work in resilience engineering by Ellison et al. (Ellison et al. 1999, 2002). They designed a method of analysis called survivable systems analysis. This method 
is used to assess vulnerabilities in systems and to support the design of system archi
-
tectures and features that promote system survivability.Survivable systems analysis is a four-stage process (Figure 14.8) that analyzes 
the current or proposed system requirements and architecture, identifies critical ser
-
vices, attack scenarios, and system ﬁsoftspots,ﬂ and proposes changes to improve the 
survivability of a system. The key activities in each of these stages are as follows:1. System understanding For an existing or proposed system, review the goals of the system (sometimes called the mission objectives), the system requirements, 
and the system architecture.2. Critical service identification The services that must always be maintained and 
the components that are required to maintain these services are identified.3. Attack simulation 
Scenarios or use cases for possible attacks are identified, 

along with the system components that would be affected by these attacks.4. Survivability analysis Components that are both essential and compromisable 

by an attack are identified, and survivability strategies based on resistance, rec-
ognition, and recovery are identified.The fundamental problem with this approach to survivability analysis is that its starting point is the requirements and architecture documentation for a system. This 

is a reasonable assumption for defense systems (the work was sponsored by the U.S. 

Department of Defense), but it poses two problems for business systems:1. It is not explicitly related to the business requirements for resilience. I believe that 
these are a more appropriate starting point than technical system requirements.1. Review systemrequirements andarchitecture2. Identify critical services
and components3. Identify attacks an
dcompromisablecomponents4. Identify softspots and
survivability strategies
Figure 14.8 Stages in survivability analysis 