˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
part of a broader sociotechnical system ST1. That sociotechnical system includes 
operators who monitor the condition of S1 and S2 and who can take actions to 

resolve problems in these systems. If system S1 (say) fails, then the operators in 

ST1 may detect that failure and take recovery actions before the software failure 

leads to failure in the broader sociotechnical system. Operators may also invoke 

recovery and reinstatement procedures to get S1 back to its normal operating state.Operational and management processes are the interface between the organiza-tion and the technical systems that are used. If these processes are well designed, 

they allow people to discover and to cope with technical system failures, as well as 
ensuring that operator errors are minimized. As I discuss in Section 14.2.2, rigid 

processes that are overautomated are not inherently resilient. They do not allow peo-
ple to use their skills and knowledge to adapt and change processes to cope with the 

unexpected and deal with unanticipated failures.The system ST1 is one of a number of sociotechnical systems in the organization. If the system operators cannot contain a technical system failure, then this may lead 
to a failure in the sociotechnical system ST1. Managers at the organizational level 
then must detect the problem and take steps to recover from it. Resilience is there-
fore an organizational as well as a system characteristic.Hollnagel (Hollnagel 2010), who was an early advocate of resilience engineer-ing, argues that it is important for organizations to study and learn from successes as 

well as failure. High-profile safety and security failures lead to inquiries and changes 

in practice and procedures. However, rather than respond to these failures, it is 
 better to avoid them by observing how people deal with problems and maintain 

resilience. This good practice can then be disseminated throughout the organization. 

Figure 14.
4 shows four characteristics that Hollnagel suggests reflect the resilience 

of an organization. These characteristics are:1. The ability to respond Organizations have to be able to adapt their processes and procedures in response to risks. These risks may be anticipated risks, or they 

may be detected threats to the organization and its systems. For example, if a 
new security threat is detected and publicized, a resilient organization can make 

changes quickly so that this threat does not disrupt its operations.2. The ability to monitor 
Organizations should monitor both their internal 
 operations and their external environment for threats before they arise. For 

example, a company should monitor how its employees follow security policies. S2S1ST1OrganizationFailure
Failure
OperatorsManagersFigure 14.3 Nested technical and 
sociotechnical systems 