˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Figure 6.
13 is an example of a system that is based on the clientŒserver model. 
This is a multiuser, web-based system for providing a film and photograph library. 
In this system, several servers manage and display the different types of media. 

Video frames need to be transmitted quickly and in synchrony but at relatively low 

resolution. They may be compressed in a store, so the video server can handle 

video compression and decompression in different formats. Still pictures, how-ever, must be maintained at a high resolution, so it is appropriate to maintain them 

on a separate server.The catalog must be able to deal with a variety of queries and provide links into 
the web information system that include data about the film and video clips, and an 
e-commerce system that supports the sale of photographs, film, and video clips. The 

client program is simply an integrated user interface, constructed using a web 

browser, to access these services.The most important advantage of the clientŒserver model is that it is a distributed architecture. Effective use can be made of networked systems with many distributed 

processors. It is easy to add a new server and integrate it with the rest of the system 
or to upgrade servers transparently without affecting other parts of the system. I 
cover distributed architectures in Chapter 17, where I explain the clientŒserver 

model and its variants in more detail.My final example of a general Architectural pattern is the Pipe and Filter pattern 

(Figure 6.
14). This is a model of the runtime organization of a system where 

functional transformations process their inputs and produce outputs. Data flows 

from one to another and is transformed as it moves through the sequence. Each 

processing step is implemented as a transform. Input data flows through these 

transforms until converted to output. The transformations may execute sequen-
tially or in parallel. The data can be processed by each transform item by item or 

in a single batch.Catalog
server
LibrarycatalogueVideo
server
Film storePicture
server
Photo storeWebserver
Film andphoto info.Client 1Client 2Client 3Client 4InternetFigure 6.13 A clientŒserver architecture for a 
film library 