˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜these software failures will not occur or that they will not be propagated in such a 
way that dangerous system failures may occur.Safety cases are large and complex documents, and so they are very expensive to 
produce and maintain. Because of these high costs, safety-critical system developers 

have to take the requirements of the safety case into account in the development process:1.
 Graydon et al. (Graydon, Knight, and Strunk 2007) argue that the development of a safety case should be tightly integrated with system design and implemen-
tation. This means that system design decisions may be influenced by the 

requirements of the safety case. Design choices that may add significantly to the 
difficulties and costs of case development can then be avoided.2. Regulators have their own views on what is acceptable and unacceptable in a 
safety case. It therefore makes sense for a development team to work with them 
from early in the development to establish what the regulator expects from the 
system safety case.The development of safety cases is expensive because of the costs of the record keeping required as well as the costs of comprehensive system validation and safety 

assurance processes. System changes and rework also add to the costs of a safety 
ChapterDescriptionSystem descriptionAn overview of the system and a description of its critical components.
Safety requirementsThe safety requirements taken from the system requirements specification. Details of 
other relevant system requirements may also be included.Hazard and risk 
analysisDocuments describing the hazards and risks that have been identified and the 
measures taken to reduce risk. Hazard analyses and hazard logs.Design analysisA set of structured arguments (see Section 12.4.1) that justify why the design is safe.
Verification and validationA description of the V & V procedures used and, where appropriate, the test plans for 
the system. Summaries of the test results showing defects that have been detected 
and corrected. If formal methods have been used, a formal system specification and 
any analyses of that specification. Records of static analyses of the source code.Review reportsRecords of all design and safety reviews.
Team competencesEvidence of the competence of all of the team involved in safety-related systems 
development and validation.Process QARecords of the quality assurance processes (see Chapter 24) carried out during system 
development.Change 
management 
processesRecords of all changes proposed, actions taken, and, where appropriate, justification of 
the safety of these changes. Information about configuration management procedures 
and configuration management logs.Associated safety 
casesReferences to other safety cases that may impact the safety case.Figure 12.10 Possible contents of a software 
safety case