˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
It˜has a single attribute, which is its identifier. This is a constant that is set when the 
weather station is installed. You therefore only need a test that checks if it has been 

properly set up. You need to define test cases for all of the methods associated with the 

object such as reportWeather and reportStatus. Ideally, you should test methods in 
isolation, but, in some cases, test sequences are necessary. For example, to test the 

method that shuts down the weather station instruments (shutdown), you need to have 
executed the restart method.Generalization or inheritance makes object class testing more complicated. You can™t simply test an operation in the class where it is defined and assume that it will 
work as expected in all of the subclasses that inherit the operation. The operation that 
is inherited may make assumptions about other operations and attributes. These 

assumptions may not be valid in some subclasses that inherit the operation. You 

therefore have to test the inherited operation everywhere that it is used.To test the states of the weather station, you can use a state model as discussed in 
Chapter 7 (Figure 7.8). Using this model, you identify sequences of state transitions 

that have to be tested and define event sequences to force these transitions. In princi-
ple, you should test every possible state transition sequence, although in practice this 
may be too expensive. Examples of state sequences that should be tested in the 

weather station include:Shutdown ˜ Running ˜ ShutdownConfiguring ˜ Running ˜ Testing ˜ Transmitting ˜ RunningRunning ˜ Collecting ˜ Running ˜ Summarizing ˜ Transmitting ˜ RunningWhenever possible, you should automate unit testing. In automated unit testing, you 
make use of a test automation framework, such as JUnit (Tahchiev et al. 2010) to write 

and run your program tests. Unit testing frameworks provide generic test classes that 

you extend to create specific test cases. They can then run all of the tests that you have 

implemented and report, often through some graphical unit interface (GUI), on the suc
-cess or otherwise of the tests. An entire test suite can often be run in a few seconds, so it 

is possible to execute all tests every time you make a change to the program.An automated test has three parts:1. A setup part
, where you initialize the system with the test case, namely, the 
inputs and expected outputs.identifierreportWeather ( )
reportStatus ( )
powerSave (instruments)
remoteControl (commands)
reconfigure (commands)
restart (instruments)

shutdown (instruments)WeatherStation
Figure 8.4 The weather station object interface