˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜ˇ
˜employees of the customer company and the equipment prices that have been 
agreed to with that company.
2. The catalog shall allow a customer employee to download a version of the catalog 

for offline browsing.
3. The catalog shall allow users to compare the specifications and prices of up to 

six catalog items.4. The catalog shall provide browsing and search facilities for users.
5. Users of the catalog shall be able to discover the predicted delivery date for a 

given number of specific catalog items.
6.
 Users of the catalog shall be able to place ﬁvirtual ordersﬂ where the items 

required will be reserved for them for 48 hours. Virtual orders must be con
-
firmed by a real order placed by a procurement system. The real order must be 

received within 48 hours of the virtual order.
In addition to these functional requirements, the catalog has a number of non-functional requirements:1.
 Access to the catalog service shall be restricted to employees of accredited 
organizations.
2.
 The prices and configurations offered to each customer shall be confidential, 

and access to these shall only be provided to employees of that customer.
3. The catalog shall be available without disruption of service from 0700 GMT to 

1100 GMT.
4. The catalog service shall be able to process up to 100 requests per second peak load.
There is no non-functional requirement related to the response time of the catalog service. This depends on the size of the catalog and the expected number of simulta
-
neous users. As this is not a time-critical service, there is no need to specify the 

required performance at this stage.˜˚˛
Once you have identified candidate services, the next stage in the service engineer
-ing process is to design the service interfaces. This involves defining the operations 

associated with the service and their parameters. If SOAP-based services are used, 

you have to design the input and output messages. If RESTful services are used, you 

have to think about the resources required and how the standard operations should be 

used to implement the service operations.The starting point for service interface design is abstract interface design. where 
you identify the entities and the operations associated with the service, their inputs and 
