˜˜˚˛˚˜˜˜
˜˜
Safety requirements are primarily protection requirements and are not concerned 
with normal system operation. They may specify that the system should be shut down 
so that safety is maintained. In deriving safety requirements, you therefore need to find 

an acceptable balance between safety and functionality and avoid overprotection. There 

is no point in building a very safe system if it does not operate in a cost-effective way.Risk-based requirements specification is a general approach used in critical  systems 
engineering where risks faced by the system are identified and requirements to avoid 

or mitigate these risks are identified. It may be used for all types of dependability 

requirements. For safety-critical systems, it translates into a process driven by identi
-
fied hazards. As I discussed in the previous section, a hazard is something that could 

(but need not) result in death or injury to a person.There are four activities in a hazard-driven safety specification process:1. Hazard identification The hazard identification process identifies hazards that 
may threaten the system. These hazards may be recorded in a hazard register. 
This is a formal document that records the safety analyses and assessments and 

that may be submitted to a regulator as part of a safety case.2. Hazard assessment The hazard assessment process decides which hazards are 
the most dangerous and/or the most likely to occur. These should be prioritized 
when deriving safety requirements.3. Hazard analysis This is a process of root-cause analysis that identifies the 

events that can lead to the occurrence of a hazard.4. Risk reduction This process is based on the outcome of hazard analysis and 

leads to identification of safety requirements. These requirements may be con-
cerned with ensuring that a hazard does not arise or lead to an accident or that if 
an accident does occur, the associated damage is minimized.Figure 12.
2 illustrates this hazard-driven safety requirements specification process.
ˇˇIn safety-critical systems, hazard identification starts by identifying different classes of 

hazards, such as physical, electrical, biological, radiation, and service failure hazards. 

Each of these classes can then be analyzed to discover specific hazards that could occur. 

Possible combinations of hazards that are potentially dangerous must also be identified.Hazard probability and acceptabilitySafety requirementsRoot cause analysesHazard registerHazard identificationHazard assessmentHazard analysisRisk reductionFigure 12.2 Hazard-driven requirements specification 