˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
Figure 20.
4 illustrates the collaboration in these different types of system. Rather than use Maier™s names, I have used what I hope are more descriptive terms:1. Organizational systems of systems are SoS where the governance and manage-ment of the system lies within the same organization or company. These corre
-
spond to Maier™s ﬁdirected SoS.ﬂ Collaboration between system owners is 

managed by the organization. The SoS may be geographically distributed, with 
different parts of the system subject to different national laws and regulations. 
In Figure 20.4, Systems 1, 2, and 3 are independently managed, but the govern-
ance of these systems is centralized.2. Federated systems 
are SoS where the governance of the SoS depends on a vol
-
untary participative body in which all of the system owners are represented. In 

Figure 20.
4, this is shown by the owners of Systems 1, 2, and 3 participating in 
a single governance body. The system owners agree to collaborate and believe 
that decisions made by the governance body are binding. They implement these 
decisions in their individual management policies, although implementations 

may differ because of national laws, regulations, and culture.3. System of system coalitions are SoS with no formal governance mechanisms 

but where the organizations involved informally collaborate and manage their 

own systems to maintain the system as a whole. For example, if one system 

provides a data feed to others, the managers of that system will not change the 

format of the data without notice. Figure 20.4 shows that there is no govern-
ance at the organizational level but that informal collaboration exists at the 

management level.This governance-based classification scheme provides a means of identifying the governance requirements for a SoS. By classifying a system according to this model, 
you can check if the appropriate governance structures exist and if these are the ones 
you really need. Setting up these structures across organizations is a political process 
and inevitably takes a long time. It is therefore helpful to understand the governance GovernanceManagementTechnical
OrganizationalFederated
Coalition123123123123123123123Figure 20.4 SoS collaboration 