˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜
rejected change requests are closed and no further action is taken. The factors that influence the decision on whether or not to implement a change include:1. The consequences of not making the change When assessing a change request, you have to consider what will happen if the change is not implemented. If the 
change is associated with a reported system failure, the seriousness of that fail
-
ure has to be taken into account. If the system failure causes the system to crash, 
this is very serious, and failure to make the change may disrupt the operational 

use of the system. On the other hand, if the failure has a minor effect, such as 
incorrect colors on a display, then it is not important to fix the problem quickly. 
The change should therefore have a low priority.2. The benefits of the change Will the change benefit many users of the system, or 
will it only benefit the change proposer?3. The number of users affected by the change If only a few users are affected, then 
the change may be assigned a low priority. In fact, making the change may be 
inadvisable if it means that the majority of system users have to adapt to it.4. The costs of making the change If making the change affects many system com-
ponents (hence increasing the chances of introducing new bugs) and/or takes a 

lot of time to implement, then the change may be rejected.5. The product release cycle 
If a new version of the software has just been released 
to customers, it may make sense to delay implementation of the change until the 
next planned release (see Section 25.4).Change management for software products (e.g., a CAD system product), rather than 
custom systems specifically developed for a certain customer, are handled in a different 

way. In software products, the customer is not directly involved in decisions about sys
-
tem evolution, so the relevance of the change to the customer™s business is not an issue. 

Change requests for these products come from the customer support team, the company 

marketing team, and the developers themselves. These requests may reflect suggestions 

and feedback from customers or analyses of what is offered by competing products.The customer support team may submit change requests associated with bugs that 
have been discovered and reported by customers after the software has been released. 

Customers may use a web page or email to report bugs. A bug management team then 

checks that the bug reports are valid and translates them into formal system change 

requests. Marketing staff may meet with customers and investigate competitive products. 

They may suggest changes that should be included to make it easier to sell a new version 

of a system to new and existing customers. The system developers themselves may have 

some good ideas about new features that can be added to the system.The change request process shown in Figure 25.14 is initiated after a system has been released to customers. During development, when new versions of the system 
are created through daily (or more frequent) system builds, there is no need for a 

formal change management process. Problems and requested changes are recorded 

in an issue tracking system and discussed in daily meetings. Changes that only affect 
individual components are passed directly to the system developer, who either 

accepts them or makes a case for why they are not required. However, an 
 independent 