˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜develop the system. The system hardware may be obsolete and so increasingly 
expensive to maintain.Why then do businesses not simply replace these systems with more modern 
equivalents? The simple answer to this question is that it is too expensive and too 
risky to do so. If a legacy system works effectively, the costs of replacement may 
exceed the savings that come from the reduced support costs of a new system. 

Scrapping legacy systems and replacing them with more modern software open up 

the possibility of things going wrong and the new system failing to meet the needs 
of˜the business. Managers try to minimize those risks and therefore do not want to 

face the uncertainties of new software systems.I discovered some of the problems of legacy system replacement when I was 
involved in analyzing a legacy system replacement project in a large organization. 
This enterprise used more than 150 legacy systems to run its business. It decided to 
replace all of these systems with a single, centrally maintained ERP system. For a 
number of business and technology reasons, the new system development was a 

failure, and it did not deliver the improvements promised. After spending more than 
£10 million, only a part of the new system was operational, and it worked less effec-
tively than the systems it replaced. Users continued to use the older systems but 

could not integrate these with the part of the new system that had been implemented, 
so additional manual processing was required.There are several reasons why it is expensive and risky to replace legacy systems with new systems:1. There is rarely a complete specification of the legacy system. The original spec-ification may have been lost. If a specification exists, it is unlikely that it has 
been updated with all of the system changes that have been made. Therefore, 

there is no straightforward way of specifying a new system that is functionally 
identical to the system that is in use.2. Business processes and the ways in which legacy systems operate are often inex
-
tricably intertwined. These processes are likely to have evolved to take advantage 

of the software™s services and to work around the software™s shortcomings. If the 

system is replaced, these processes have to change with potentially unpredictable 

costs and consequences.Socio-technical systemHardwarePlatform and infrastructure softwareApplication softwareBusiness processesFigure 9.8 Legacy system layers 