˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜4. It is possible to reconfigure the system dynamically with components migrating across 
the network as required. This may be important where there are fluctuating patterns 

of demand on services. A service-providing component can migrate to the same 
 processor as service-requesting objects, thus improving the performance of the system.
A distributed component architecture can be used as a logical model that allows 
you to structure and organize the system. In this case, you think about how to pro
-
vide application functionality solely in terms of services and combinations of ser-vices. You then work out how to implement these services. For example, a retail 

application may have application components concerned with stock control, cus-
tomer communications, goods ordering, and so on.Data-mining systems are a good example of a type of system that can be imple-mented using a distributed component architecture. Data-mining systems look for 

relationships between the data that may be distributed across databases (Figure 17.13). 

These systems pull in information from several separate databases, carry out compu-
tationally intensive processing, and present easy-to-understand visualizations of the 

relationships that have been discovered.An example of such a data-mining application might be a system for a retail busi-ness that sells food and books. Retail businesses maintain separate databases with 
detailed information about food products and books. They use a loyalty card system 
to keep track of customers™ purchases, so there is a large database linking bar codes 
of products with customer information. The marketing department wants to find 

relationships between a customer™s food and book purchases. For instance, a rela
-
tively high proportion of people who buy pizzas might also buy crime novels. With 
this knowledge, the business can specifically target customers who make specific 

food purchases with information about new novels when they are published.Database 1
Database 2
Database 3Integrator 1
Integrator 2
Visualizer
DisplayReport gen.
ClientsFigure 17.13  A distributed component architecture for a 
data-mining system 