˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
Most computer-based systems are now distributed systems. A distributed system is one 
involving several computers rather than a single application running on a single machine. 

Even apparently self-contained applications on a PC or laptop, such as image editors, are 

distributed systems. They execute on a single computer system but often rely on remote 

cloud systems for update, storage, and other services. Tanenbaum and Van Steen 

(Tanenbaum and Van Steen 2007) define a distributed system to be ﬁa collection of 

independent computers that appears to the user as a single coherent system.ﬂƒWhen you are designing a distributed system, there are specific issues that have to be taken into account simply because the system is distributed. These issues arise 

because different parts of the system are running on independently managed com-
puters and because the characteristics of the network, such as latency and reliability, 

may have to be considered in your design.Coulouris et al. (Coulouris et al. 2011) identify the five benefits of developing 
systems as distributed systems:1. Resource sharing A distributed system allows the sharing of hardware and soft-ware resourcesŠsuch as disks, printers, files, and compilersŠthat are associated 

with computers on a network.2. Openness Distributed systems are normally open systemsŠsystems designed 
around standard Internet protocols so that equipment and software from different 

vendors can be combined.3. Concurrency In a distributed system, several processes may operate at the same 
time on separate computers on the network. These processes may (but need not) 

communicate with each other during their normal operation.4. Scalability In principle at least, distributed systems are scalable in that the capa
-bilities of the system can be increased by adding new resources to cope with 

new demands on the system. In practice, the network linking the individual 

computers in the system may limit the system scalability.5. Fault tolerance The availability of several computers and the potential for replicat-ing information means that distributed systems can be tolerant of some hardware 

and software failures (see Chapter 11). In most distributed systems, a degraded 

service can be provided when failures occur; complete loss of service only occurs 

when there is a network failure.⁄Distributed systems are inherently more complex than centralized systems. This 
makes them more difficult to design, implement, and test. It is harder to understand 

the emergent properties of distributed systems because of the complexity of the inter
-
actions between system components and system infrastructure. For example, rather 

than being dependent on the execution speed of one processor, system performance 
ƒTanenbaum, A. S., and M. Van Steen. 2007. Distributed Systems: Principles and Paradigms, 2nd Ed. 
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
⁄Coulouris, G., J. Dollimore, T. Kindberg, and G. Blair. 2011. Distributed Systems: Concepts and  
Design, 5th Edition. Harlow, UK.: Addison Wesley.
