˜˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜
˘˘A manager or team leader™s job is to create a cohesive group and organize that group so that they work together effectively. This task involves selecting a group with the 
right balance of technical skills and personalities. Sometimes people are hired from 
outside the organization; more often, software engineering groups are put together 
from current employees who have experience on other projects. Managers rarely 

have a completely free hand in team selection. They often have to use the people 

who are available in the company, even if they are not the ideal people for the job.Many software engineers are motivated primarily by their work. Software devel
-opment groups, therefore, are often composed of people who have their own ideas 
about how technical problems should be solved. They want to do the best job possi-
ble, so they may deliberately redesign systems that they think can be improved and 

add extra system features that are not in the system requirements. Agile methods 

encourage engineers to take the initiative to improve the software. However, some-
times this means that time is spent doing things that aren™t really needed and that 

different engineers compete to rewrite each other™s code.Technical knowledge and ability should not be the only factor used to select group members. The ﬁcompeting engineersﬂ problem can be reduced if the people in the 
group have complementary motivations. People who are motivated by the work are 
likely to be the strongest technically. People who are self-oriented will probably be 
best at pushing the work forward to finish the job. People who are interaction-ori-
ented help facilitate communications within the group. I think that it is particularly 
important to have interaction-oriented people in a group. They like to talk to people 
and can detect tensions and disagreements at an early stage, before these problems 
have a serious impact on the group.In the case study in Figure 22.10, I have suggested how Alice, the project man-ager, has tried to create a group with complementary personalities. This particular 

group has a good mix of interaction- and task-oriented people, but I have already 

discussed, in Figure 
22.8, how Dorothy™s self-oriented personality has caused prob
-
lems because she has not been doing the work that she expected. Fred™s part-time 

role in the group as a domain expert might also be a problem. He is mostly interested 
in technical challenges, so he may not interact well with other group members. The 
fact that he is not always part of the team means that he may not fully relate to the 
team™s goals.It is sometimes impossible to choose a group with complementary personalities. If this is the case, the project manager has to control the group so that individual 

goals do not take precedence over organizational and group objectives. This control 
is easier to achieve if all group members participate in each stage of the project. 

Individual initiative is most likely to develop when group members are given instruc-
tions without being aware of the part that their task plays in the overall project.For example, say a software engineer takes over the development of a system and notices that possible improvements could be made to the design. If he or she imple-
ments these improvements without understanding the rationale for the original 

design, any changes, though well-intentioned, might have adverse implications for 