˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜
˜˜˜
users work, and these assumptions may cause problems in specific situations. For exam-ple, a system to support student registration in a university may assume that students will 

be registered for one degree at one university. However, if universities collaborate to offer 

joint degrees, then it may be practically impossible to represent this detail in the system.Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems, such as those produced by SAP and 
Oracle, are large-scale, integrated systems designed to support business practices 

such as ordering and invoicing, inventory management, and manufacturing schedul-
ing (Monk and Wagner 2013). The configuration process for these systems involves 

gathering detailed information about the customer™s business and business pro-
cesses, and embedding this information in a configuration database. This often 

requires detailed knowledge of configuration notations and tools and is usually car-
ried out by consultants working alongside system customers.A generic ERP system includes a number of modules that may be composed in different ways to create a system for a customer. The configuration process involves 
choosing which modules are to be included, configuring these individual modules, 
defining business processes and business rules, and defining the structure and organ-
ization of the system database. A model of the overall architecture of an ERP system 
that supports a range of business functions is shown in Figure 15.13.The key features of this architecture are as follows:1. A number of modules to support different business functions. These are large grain 

modules that may support entire departments or divisions of the business. In the 

example shown in Figure 15.13, the modules that have been selected for inclusion 

in the system are a module to support purchasing; a module to support supply chain 

management; a logistics module to support the delivery of goods; and a customer 

relationship management (CRM) module to maintain customer information.2. A defined set of business process models, associated with each module, which 
relate to activities in that module. For example, the ordering process model may 
define how orders are created and approved. This will specify the roles and 

activities involved in placing an order.3. A common database that maintains information about all related business func-
tions. Thus, it should not be necessary to replicate information, such as cus
-
tomer details, in different parts of the business.System database
Business rulesPurchasingSupply chain
Logistics
CRM
ProcessesProcessesProcessesProcessesFigure 15.13 The architecture of an 
ERP system 