˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Legacy systems are older systems that rely on languages and technology that are no longer used for new systems development. Typically, they have been maintained over a long period, and their structure may have been degraded by the changes that 

have been made. Legacy software may be dependent on older hardware, such as 

mainframe computers and may have associated legacy processes and procedures. It 
may be impossible to change to more effective business processes because the leg-
acy software cannot be modified to support new processes.Legacy systems are not just software systems but are broader sociotechnical systems 
that include hardware, software, libraries, and other supporting software and business 

processes. Figure 9.7 shows the logical parts of a legacy system and their relationships.1. System hardware Legacy systems may have been written for hardware that is no longer available, that is expensive to maintain, and that may not be compatible 
with current organizational IT purchasing policies.2. Support software 
The legacy system may rely on a range of support software 

from the operating system and utilities provided by the hardware manufacturer 

through to the compilers used for system development. Again, these may be 

obsolete and no longer supported by their original providers.3. Application software The application system that provides the business services 
is usually made up of a number of application programs that have been devel-
oped at different times. Some of these programs will also be part of other appli-
cation software systems.4. Application data These data are processed by the application system. In many 
legacy systems, an immense volume of data has accumulated over the lifetime 
of the system. This data may be inconsistent, may be duplicated in several files, 

and may be spread over a number of different databases.5. Business processes 
These processes are used in the business to achieve some 

business objective. An example of a business process in an insurance company 
would be issuing an insurance policy; in a manufacturing company, a business 
process would be accepting an order for products and setting up the associated 
manufacturing process. Business processes may be designed around a legacy 

system and constrained by the functionality that it provides.6. Business policies and rules These are definitions of how the business should be 
carried out and constraints on the business. Use of the legacy application system 
may be embedded in these policies and rules.An alternative way of looking at these components of a legacy system is as a 
series of layers, as shown in Figure 9.8.Each layer depends on the layer immediately below it and interfaces with that 
layer. If interfaces are maintained, then you should be able to make changes within a 
layer without affecting either of the adjacent layers. In practice, however, this simple 
encapsulation is an oversimplification, and changes to one layer of the system may 