˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
Typically, a commercial software system has to go through three stages of testing:1. Development testing, where the system is tested during development to discover bugs and defects. System designers and programmers are likely to be involved 
in the testing process.2. Release testing
, where a separate testing team tests a complete version of the 

system before it is released to users. The aim of release testing is to check that 
the system meets the requirements of the system stakeholders.3. User testing, where users or potential users of a system test the system in their 

own environment. For software products, the ﬁuserﬂ may be an internal market-
ing group that decides if the software can be marketed, released and sold. 

Acceptance testing is one type of user testing where the customer formally tests 
a system to decide if it should be accepted from the system supplier or if further 
development is required.In practice, the testing process usually involves a mixture of manual and auto-mated testing. In manual testing, a tester runs the program with some test data and 
compares the results to their expectations. They note and report discrepancies to the 

program developers. In automated testing, the tests are encoded in a program that is 
run each time the system under development is to be tested. This is faster than man-
ual testing, especially when it involves regression testingŠre-running previous tests 
to check that changes to the program have not introduced new bugs.Unfortunately, testing can never be completely automated as automated tests can 
only check that a program does what it is supposed to do. It is practically impossible 

to use automated testing to test systems that depend on how things look (e.g., a graph
-
ical user interface), or to test that a program does not have unanticipated side effects.Development testing includes all testing activities that are carried out by the team 

developing the system. The tester of the software is usually the programmer who 

developed that software. Some development processes use programmer/tester pairs 

(Cusamano and Selby 1998) where each programmer has an associated tester who Test planningTest planning is concerned with scheduling and resourcing all of the activities in the testing process. It involves 
defining the testing process, taking into account the people and the time available. Usually, a test plan will be 
created that defines what is to be tested, the predicted testing schedule, and how tests will be recorded. For 
critical systems, the test plan may also include details of the tests to be run on the software.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/test-planning/