˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
own private repository for testing (3). Once he is satisfied that the changes are 
acceptable, he then updates the definitive project repository (4).A consequence of the independent development of the same component is that 
codelines may branch. Rather than a linear sequence of versions that reflect changes 
to the component over time, there may be several independent sequences, as shown 
in Figure 25.8. This is normal in system development, where different developers 

work independently on different versions of the source code and change it in differ
-
ent ways. It is generally recommended when working on a system that a new branch 
should be created so that changes do not accidentally break a working system.At some stage, it may be necessary to merge codeline branches to create a new version 
of a component that includes all changes that have been made. This is also shown in 

Figure 25.
8, where component versions 2.1.2 and 2.3 are merged to create version 2.4. If 

the changes made involve completely different parts of the code, the component versions 

may be merged automatically by the version control system by combining the code 

changes. This is the normal mode of operation when new features have been added. These 

code changes are merged into the master copy of the system. However, the changes made 

by different developers sometimes overlap. The changes may be incompatible and inter-
fere with each other. In this case, a developer has to check for clashes and make changes 

to the components to resolve the incompatibilities between the different versions.When version control systems were first developed, storage management was one 
of their most important functions. Disk space was expensive, and it was important to 
AliceBobDefinitive project repositoryCharlieAlice™s publicrepositoryAlice™s privaterepositoryBob™s publicrepositoryBob™s privaterepositoryCharlie™s privaterepository122334Figure 25.7 Open-source developmentV1.0V1.1V1.2V2.2V2.3V2.0V2.1.1V2.1.2V2.1V2.4Codeline 1Codeline 2<branch><branch><merge>Codeline 2.1Figure 25.8 Branching and merging