˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜
˜˜˜
Safety reviews are reviews of the software specification, design, and source code whose aim is to discover potentially hazardous conditions. These are not automated 
processes but involve people carefully checking for errors that have been made and 
for assumptions or omissions that may affect the safety of a system. For example, in 

the aircraft accident that I introduced earlier, a safety review might have questioned 
the assumption that an aircraft is on the ground when there is weight on both wheels 
and the wheels are rotating.Safety reviews should be driven by the hazard register. For each of the identified 
hazards, a review team examines the system and judges whether or not it would cope 

with that hazard in a safe way. Any doubts raised are flagged in the review team™s 

report and have to be addressed by the system development team. I discuss reviews of 

different types in more detail in Chapter 24, which covers software  quality assurance.Software safety certification is used when external components are incorporated into a safety-critical system. When all parts of a system have been locally developed, 
complete information about the development processes used can be maintained. 

However, it is not cost-effective to develop components that are readily available 

from other vendors. The problem for safety-critical systems development is that 

these external components may have been developed to different standards than 

locally developed components. Their safety is unknown.Consequently, it may be a requirement that all external components must be certified 
before they can be integrated with a system. The safety certification team, which is 

separate from the development team, carries out extensive verification and validation of 
Figure 12.7  A simplified hazard 
register entryHazard Register. Page 4: Printed 20.02.2012System: Insulin Pump System File: InsulinPump/Safety/HazardLog Safety Engineer: James Brown Log version: 1/3Identified Hazard Insulin overdose delivered to patientIdentified by Jane WilliamsCriticality class 1Identified risk HighFault tree identified YES Date 24.01.11 Location Hazard register,     
 Page 5Fault tree creators Jane Williams and Bill SmithFault tree checked YES Date 28.01.11 Checker James BrownSystem safety design requirements1.  The system shall include self-testing software that will test the sensor system, the clock, and the insulin delivery system.2. The self-checking software shall be executed once per minute.
3.  In the event of the self-checking software discovering a fault in any of the system 
components, an audible warning shall be issued and the pump display shall indi-
cate the name of the component where the fault has been discovered. The deliv-

ery of insulin shall be suspended.4.  The system shall incorporate an override system that allows the system user to 
modify the computed dose of insulin that is to be delivered by the system.5.  The amount of override shall be no greater than a pre-set value (maxOverride), 
which is set when the system is configured by medical staff.