˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜the project over several versions of the system. This may reduce the costs of 
system deployment and allow the client to budget for the project cost over sev
-
eral financial years.
Plan-driven or plan-based development is an approach to software engineering 

where the development process is planned in detail. A project plan is created that 

records the work to be done, who will do it, the development schedule, and the work 
products. Managers use the plan to support project decision making and as a way of 

measuring progress. Plan-driven development is based on engineering project man-
agement techniques and can be thought of as the ﬁtraditionalﬂ way of managing large 
software development projects. Agile development involves a different planning 

process, discussed in Section 23.4, where decisions are delayed.The problem with plan-driven development is that early decisions have to be revised 
because of changes to the environments in which the software is developed and used. 

Delaying planning decisions avoids unnecessary rework. However, the arguments in favor 

of a plan-driven approach are that early planning allows organizational issues (availability 

of staff, other projects, etc.) to be taken into account. Potential problems and dependencies 

are discovered before the project starts, rather than once the project is underway.In my view, the best approach to project planning involves a sensible mixture of 
plan-based and agile development. The balance depends on the type of project and 
skills of the people who are available. At one extreme, large security and safety-
critical systems require extensive up-front analysis and may have to be certified 

before they are put into use. These systems should be mostly plan-driven. At the 

other extreme, small to medium-size information systems, to be used in a rapidly 

changing competitive environment, should be mostly agile. Where several compa-
nies are involved in a development project, a plan-driven approach is normally used 
to coordinate the work across each development site.˘˘In a plan-driven development project, a project plan sets out the resources available to 

the project, the work breakdown, and a schedule for carrying out the work. The plan 

should identify the approach that is taken to risk management as well as risks to the pro-
ject and the software under development. The details of project plans vary depending on 

the type of project and organization but plans normally include the following sections:1. Introduction Briefly describes the objectives of the project and sets out the con-straints (e.g., budget, time) that affect the management of the project.2. Project organization Describes the way in which the development team is 
organized, the people involved, and their roles in the team.