˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜Building secure systems is expensive and uncertain. It is impossible to predict the costs of a security failure, so companies and other organizations find it difficult to 
judge how much they should spend on system security. In this respect, security and 
safety are different. There are laws that govern workplace and operator safety, and 
developers of safety-critical systems have to comply with these irrespective of the 
costs. They may be subject to legal action if they use an unsafe system. However, 
unless a security failure discloses personal information, there are no laws that pre-
vent an insecure system from being deployed.Companies assess the risks and losses that may arise from certain types of attacks on system assets. They may then decide that it is cheaper to accept these risks rather 
than build a secure system that can deter or repel the external attacks. Credit card 
companies apply this approach to fraud prevention. It is usually possible to introduce 
new technology to reduce credit card fraud. However, it is often cheaper for these 

companies to compensate users for their losses due to fraud than to buy and deploy 
fraud-reduction technology.Security risk management is therefore a business rather than a technical issue. It 
has to take into account the financial and reputational losses from a successful sys-
tem attack as well as the costs of security procedures and technologies that may 

reduce these losses. For risk management to be effective, organizations should have 
a documented information security policy that sets out:1. The assets that must be protected 
It does not necessarily make sense to apply 
stringent security procedures to all organizational assets. Many assets are not con-
fidential, and a company can improve its image by making these assets freely 

available. The costs of maintaining the security of information that is in the public 

domain are much less than the costs of keeping confidential information secure.2. The level of protection that is required for different types of assets Not all assets 
need the same level of protection. In some cases (e.g., for sensitive personal 

information), a high level of security is required; for other information, the con-
sequences of loss may be minor, so a lower level of security is adequate. 

Therefore, some information may be made available to any authorized and 

logged-in user; other information may be much more sensitive and only availa-
ble to users in certain roles or positions of responsibility.3. The responsibilities of individual users, managers, and the organization 
The 

security policy should set out what is expected of usersŠfor example, use 

strong passwords, log out of computers, and lock offices. It also defines what 
users can expect from the company, such as backup and information-archiving 

services, and equipment provision.4. Existing security procedures and technologies that should be maintained For 

reasons of practicality and cost, it may be essential to continue to use existing 

approaches to security even where these have known limitations. For example, 
