˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜
The starting point for timing analysis in a real-time system is the timing require-ments, which should set out the deadlines for each required response in the system. Figure 21.
16 shows possible timing requirements for the office building burglar 

alarm system discussed in Section 21.2.1. To simplify this example, let us ignore 

stimuli generated by system testing procedures and external signals to reset the sys-
tem in the event of a false alarm. This means there are only two types of stimulus 
processed by the system:1. Power failure is detected by observing a voltage drop of more than 20%. The required response is to switch the circuit to backup power by signaling an elec-
tronic power-switching device that switches the mains power to battery backup.2.
 Intruder alarm is a stimulus generated by one of the system sensors. The 

response to this stimulus is to compute the room number of the active sensor, set 
up a call to the police, initiate the voice synthesizer to manage the call, and 

switch on the audible intruder alarm and building lights in the area.As shown in Figure 21.16, you should list the timing constraints for each class of sensor separately, even when (as in this case) they are the same. By considering 

them separately, you leave scope for future change and make it easier to compute the 
number of times the controlling process has to be executed each second.Allocating the system functions to concurrent processes is the next design stage. Four types of sensors must be polled periodically, each with an associated process: 
the voltage sensor, door sensors, window sensors, and movement detectors. 

Normally, the processes associated with the sensor will execute very quickly as all Stimulus/ResponseTiming requirements
Audible alarmThe audible alarm should be switched on within half a second of an alarm being raised by a sensor.CommunicationsThe call to the police should be started within 
2˜seconds of an alarm being raised by a sensor.Door alarmEach door alarm should be polled twice per second.Lights switchThe lights should be switched on within half a second 
of an alarm being raised by a sensor.Movement detectorEach movement detector should be polled twice per 
second.Power failureThe switch to backup power must be completed within 
a deadline of 50 ms.Voice synthesizerA synthesized message should be available within 
2˜seconds of an alarm being raised by a sensor.Window alarmEach window alarm should be polled twice per second.Figure 21.16  Timing requirements  
for the burglar  
alarm system