˜˜˚ˇ˜˜˜
˜˜
2. Change management The process of change management (Figure 4.19) is sim-plified if active tool support is available. Tools can keep track of suggested 

changes and responses to these suggestions.3. Traceability management As discussed above, tool support for traceability 

allows related requirements to be discovered. Some tools are available which 

use natural language processing techniques to help discover possible relation-ships between requirements.For small systems, you do not need to use specialized requirements management tools. Requirements management can be supported using shared web documents, 

spreadsheets, and databases. However, for larger systems, more specialized tool sup-
port, using systems such as DOORS (IBM 2013), makes it much easier to keep track 

of a large number of changing requirements.

Requirements change management (Figure 
4.19) should be applied to all proposed 
changes to a system™s requirements after the requirements document has been approved. 

Change management is essential because you need to decide if the benefits of imple-
menting new requirements are justified by the costs of implementation. The advantage 

of using a formal process for change management is that all change proposals are treated 

consistently and changes to the requirements document are made in a controlled way.There are three principal stages to a change management process:1. Problem analysis and change specification The process starts with an identi-
fied requirements problem or, sometimes, with a specific change proposal. 

During this stage, the problem or the change proposal is analyzed to check that 

it is valid. This analysis is fed back to the change requestor who may respond 

with a more specific requirements change proposal, or decide to withdraw 

the˜request.2. Change analysis and costing The effect of the proposed change is assessed 

using traceability information and general knowledge of the system require-
ments. The cost of making the change is estimated in terms of modifications to 
the requirements document and, if appropriate, to the system design and imple-
mentation. Once this analysis is completed, a decision is made as to whether or 
not to proceed with the requirements change.ChangeimplementationChange analysisand costingProblem analysis andchange specificationIdentifiedproblemRevisedrequirementsFigure 4.19  Requirements change 
management