˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˝˙˙ˆˇ˘
bureaucracy are minimized. The focus of development is on the code itself, rather than supporting documents.algorithmic cost modelingAn approach to software cost estimation where a formula is used to estimate the project 

cost. The parameters in the formula are attributes of the project and the software itself.application familyA set of software application programs that have a common architecture and 
generic functionality. These can be tailored to the needs of specific customers by 
modifying components and program parameters.application frameworkA set of reusable concrete and abstract classes that implement features common to 
many applications in a domain (e.g. user interfaces). The classes in the application 
framework are specialized and instantiated to create an application.application program interface (API)An interface, generally specified as a set of operations, that allows access to an 
application program™s functionality. This means that this functionality can be called 
on directly by other programs and not just accessed through the user interface.architectural pattern (style)An abstract description of a software architecture that has been tried and tested in a 
number of different software systems. The pattern description includes information 
about where it is appropriate to use the pattern and the organization of the compo-
nents of the architecture.architectural viewA description of a software architecture from a particular perspective.availabilityThe readiness of a system to deliver services when requested. Availability is usu-
ally expressed as a decimal number, so an availability of 0.999 means that the sys-
tem can deliver services for 999 out of 1000 time units.BA formal method of software development that is based on implementing a system 
by systematic transformation of a formal system specification.bar chart (Gantt chart)A chart used by project managers to show the project tasks, the schedule associated 
with these tasks and the people who will work on them. It shows the tasks™ start and 
end dates and the staff allocations against a timeline.black-box testingAn approach to testing where the testers have no access to the source code of a  system or its components. The tests are derived from the system specification.