˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜recover from the failure. One important benefit of cloud computing is that it has 
dramatically reduced the cost of providing redundant system components.Two fundamental types of interaction may take place between the computers in a dis-
tributed computing system: procedural interaction and message-based interaction. 

Procedural interaction involves one computer calling on a known service offered by 

some other computer and waiting for that service to be delivered. Message-based 

interaction involves the ﬁsendingﬂ computer defining information about what is 

required in a message, which is then sent to another computer. Messages usually trans-
mit more information in a single interaction than a procedure call to another machine.To illustrate the difference between procedural and message-based interaction, 
consider a situation where you are ordering a meal in a restaurant. When you have a 
conversation with the waiter, you are involved in a series of synchronous, procedural 
interactions that define your order. You make a request, the waiter acknowledges 

that request, you make another request, which is acknowledged, and so on. This is 
comparable to components interacting in a software system where one component 
calls methods from other components. The waiter writes down your order along with 
the order of other people with you. He or she then passes this order, which includes 
details of everything that has been ordered, to the kitchen to prepare the food. 

Essentially, the waiter is passing a message to the kitchen staff, defining the food to 

be prepared. This is message-based interaction.I have illustrated this kind of interaction in Figure 17.1, which shows the synchronous 
ordering process as a series of calls, and in Figure 17.2, which shows a hypothetical XML 

message that defines an order made by the table of three people. The difference between 

these forms of information exchange is clear. The waiter takes the order as a series of 
Tomato soup please
Waiter
DinerWhat would you like?
And to follow?Fillet steakHow would you like it cooked?Rare pleaseWith salad or french fries?
Salad pleaseetc.Figure 17.1  Procedural interaction between a 
diner and a waiter 