˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜2. Because subsystems are never completely independent, changes to one subsystem 
may have side-effects that adversely affect the performance or behavior of other 

subsystems. Consequent changes to these subsystems may therefore be needed.3.
 The reasons for original design decisions are often unrecorded. Those responsible 

for˜the system evolution have to work out why particular design decisions were made.
4.
 As systems age, their structure becomes corrupted by change, so the costs of 

making further changes increases.Systems that have been in use for many years are often reliant on obsolete hard-ware and software technology. These ﬁlegacy systemsﬂ (discussed in Chapter 9) are 

sociotechnical computer-based systems that have been developed using technology 
that is now obsolete. However, they don™t just include legacy hardware and software. 
They also rely on legacy processes and proceduresŠold ways of doing things that 

are difficult to change because they rely on legacy software. Changes to one part of 
the system inevitably involve changes to other components.Changes made to a system during system evolution are often a source of problems and vulnerabilities. If the people implementing the changes are different from those 
who developed the system, they may be unaware that a design decision was taken for 
dependability and security reasons. Therefore, they may change the system and lose 
some safeguards that were deliberately implemented when the system was built. 

Furthermore, as testing is so expensive, complete retesting may be impossible after 
every system change. Consequently, testing may not discover the adverse side-
effects of changes that introduce or expose faults in other system components.Figure 19.12 Factors that influence system 
lifetimesFactorRationaleInvestment costThe costs of a systems engineering project may be tens or even hundreds of 
millions of dollars. These costs can only be justified if the system can deliver 
value to an organization for many years.Loss of expertiseAs businesses change and restructure to focus on their core activities, they 
often lose engineering expertise. This may mean that they lack the ability to 
specify the requirements for a new system.Replacement costThe cost of replacing a large system is very high. Replacing an existing system can 

be justified only if this leads to significant cost savings over the existing system.Return on investmentIf a fixed budget is available for systems engineering, spending on new 
systems in some other area of the business may lead to a higher return on 
investment than replacing an existing system.Risks of changeSystems are an inherent part of business operations, and the risks of 
replacing existing systems with new systems cannot be justified. The danger 
with a new system is that things can go wrong in the hardware, software, and 
operational processes. The potential costs of these problems for the business 
may be so high that they cannot take the risk of system replacement.System dependenciesSystems are interdependent and replacing one of these systems may lead to 
extensive changes in other systems.