˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜parts of that organization. It also includes systems whose constituent systems are 
owned and managed by different organizations that may, at times, compete with 

each other. Maier (Maier 1998) devised a classification scheme for SoS based on 

their governance and management complexity:1. Directed systems. Directed SoS are owned by a single organization and are 
developed by integrating systems that are also owned by that organization. The 

system elements may be independently managed by parts of the organization. 
However, there is an ultimate governing body within the organization that can 
set priorities for system management. It can resolve disputes between the man-
agers of different elements of the system. Directed systems therefore have some 

managerial complexity but no governance complexity. A military command-
and-control system that integrates information from airborne and ground-based 
systems is an example of a directed SoS.2. Collaborative systems. Collaborative SoS are systems with no central authority 

to set management priorities and resolve disputes. Typically, elements of the 

system are owned and governed by different organizations. However, all of the 

organizations involved recognize the mutual benefits of joint governance of 

the system. They therefore usually set up a voluntary governance body that 

makes decisions about the system. Collaborative systems have both manage-
rial complexity and a limited degree of governance complexity. An integrated 

public transport information system is an example of a collaborative system of 

systems. Bus, rail, and air transport providers agree to link their systems to 

provide passengers with up-to-date information.3. Virtual systems. Virtual systems have no central governance, and the partici-
pants may not agree on the overall purpose of the system. Participant systems 
may enter or leave the SoS. Interoperability is not guaranteed but depends on 
published interfaces that may change. These systems have a very high degree of 
both managerial and governance complexity. An example of a virtual SoS is an 

automated high-speed algorithmic trading system. These systems from different 
companies automatically buy and sell stock from each other, with trades taking 

place in fractions of a second.Unfortunately, I think that the names that Maier has used do not really reflect the 
distinctions between these different types of systems. As Maier himself says, there is 

always some collaboration in the management of the system elements. So, ﬁcollabora-
tive systemsﬂ is not really a good name. The term directed systems implies top-down 

authority. However, even within a single organization, the need to maintain good 

working relationships between the people involved means that governance is agreed 

to rather than imposed.In ﬁvirtualﬂ SoS, there may be no formal mechanisms for collaboration, but the 
system has some mutual benefit for all participants. Therefore, they are likely to col-
laborate informally to ensure that the system can continue to operate. Furthermore, 

Maier™s use of the term 
virtual could be confusing because ﬁvirtualﬂ has now come 
to mean ﬁimplemented by software,ﬂ as in virtual machines and virtual reality.