˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜ghosting. Their solution may be to enhance the image-processing capabilities of the software to remove the ghost images. This may slow down the software so that its 
performance becomes unacceptable. The problem may then be characterized as a 

software failure, whereas, in fact, it is a failure in the design process for the system 

as a whole.This sort of situation, in which software engineers are left with the problem of 
enhancing software capabilities without increasing hardware cost, is very common. 
Many so-called software failures are not a consequence of inherent software prob-
lems but rather are the result of trying to change the software to accommodate mod-
ified system engineering requirements. A good example was the failure of the 

Denver airport baggage system (Swartz 1996), where the controlling software was 
expected to deal with limitations of the equipment used.The general model of economic organization that is now almost universal in the 

world is that privately owned companies offer goods and services and make a profit 
on these. We have a competitive environment so that these companies may compete 
on cost, on quality, on delivery time, and so on. However, to ensure the safety of 

their citizens, most governments limit the freedom of privately owned companies so 
that they must follow certain standards to ensure that their products are safe and 

secure. A company therefore cannot offer products for sale more cheaply because 

they have reduced their costs by reducing the safety of their products.Governments have created a set of rules and regulations in different areas that 
define standards for safety and security. They have also established regulators or 

regulatory bodies whose job is to ensure that companies offering products in an area 
comply with these rules. Regulators have wide powers. They can fine companies and 
even imprison directors if regulations are breached. They may have a licensing role 
(e.g., in the aviation and nuclear industries) where they must issue a license before a 
new system may be used. Therefore, aircraft manufacturers have to have a certificate 
of airworthiness from the regulator in each country where the aircraft is used.To achieve certification, companies that are developing safety-critical systems 
have to produce an extensive safety case (discussed in Chapter 13) that shows that 
rules and regulations have been followed. The case must convince a regulator that 
the system can operate safely. Developing such a safety case is very costly. It can be 
as expensive to develop the documentation for certification as it is to develop the 

system itself.Regulation and compliance (following the rules) applies to the sociotechnical 
system as a whole and not simply the software element of that system. For example, 
a regulator in the nuclear industry is concerned that in the event of overheating, a 
nuclear reactor will not release radioactivity into the environment. Arguments to 

convince the regulator that this is the case may be based on software protection sys-
tems, the operational process used to monitor the reactor core and the integrity of 
structures that contain any release of radioactivity.