˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜more effectively in other ways. You have to be careful, however, about occasional 
but important use of systems. For example, a university system for student regis-tration may only be used at the beginning of each academic year. Although it is 

used infrequently, it is an essential system with a high business value.2. The business processes that are supported When a system is introduced, busi-
ness processes are usually introduced to exploit the system™s capabilities. If the 

system is inflexible, changing these business processes may be impossible. 

However, as the environment changes, the original business processes may 

become obsolete. Therefore, a system may have a low business value because it 

forces the use of inefficient business processes.3. System dependability System dependability is not only a technical problem but 
also a business problem. If a system is not dependable and the problems directly 
affect business customers, or mean that people in the business are diverted from 
other tasks to solve these problems, the system has a low business value.4. The system outputs The key issue here is the importance of the system outputs to 
the successful functioning of the business. If the business depends on these out-
puts, then the system has a high business value. Conversely, if these outputs can 

be cheaply generated in some other way, or if the system produces outputs that 
are rarely used, then the system has a low business value.For example, assume that a company provides a travel ordering system that is 
used by staff responsible for arranging travel. They can place orders with an approved 
travel agent. Tickets are then delivered, and the company is invoiced for them. 

However, a business value assessment may reveal that this system is only used for a 

fairly small percentage of travel orders placed. People making travel arrangements 
find it cheaper and more convenient to deal directly with travel suppliers through 

their websites. This system may still be used, but there is no real point in keeping 
itŠthe same functionality is available from external systems.Conversely, say a company has developed a system that keeps track of all previ
-ous customer orders and automatically generates reminders for customers to reorder 
goods. This results in a large number of repeat orders and keeps customers satisfied 

because they feel that their supplier is aware of their needs. The outputs from such a 
system are important to the business, so this system has a high business value.To assess a software system from a technical perspective, you need to consider 
both the application system itself and the environment in which the system operates. 

The environment includes the hardware and all associated support software such as 

compilers, debuggers and development environments that are needed to maintain the 

system. The environment is important because many system changes, such as upgrades 

to the hardware or operating system, result from changes to the environment.Factors that you should consider during the environment assessment are shown in 
Figure 9.
10. Notice that these are not all technical characteristics of the environment. 
You also have to consider the reliability of the suppliers of the hardware and support 
software. If suppliers are no longer in business, their systems may not be supported, 
so you may have to replace these systems.