˜˜˚˛ˇ˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
and have the authority to decide when the overall system is acceptable. For SoS, a 
range of stakeholders should be involved in the testing process if possible, and 

they can comment on whether or not the system is ready for deployment.2.
 Agile methods make extensive use of automated testing. This makes it much 

easier to rerun tests to discover if unexpected system changes have caused prob-
lems for the SoS as a whole.Depending on the type of system, you may have to plan the installation of equip-ment and user training as part of the deployment process. If the system is being 

installed in a new environment, equipment installation is straightforward. However, 

if it is intended to replace an existing system, there may be problems in installing new 

equipment if it is not compatible with the equipment that is in use. There may not be 

the physical space for the new equipment to be installed alongside the working sys-
tem. There may be insufficient electrical power, or users may not have time to be 

involved because they are busy using the current system. These nontechnical issues 

can delay the deployment process and slow down the adoption and use of the SoS.Perhaps the most crucial activity of the systems of systems engineering process is 
architectural design. Architectural design involves selecting the systems to be 

included in the SoS, assessing how these systems will interoperate, and designing 

mechanisms that facilitate interaction. Key decisions on data management, redun-dancy, and communications are made. In essence, the SoS architect is responsible 
for realizing the vision set out in the conceptual design of the system. For organiza-
tional and federated systems, in particular, decisions made at this stage are crucial to 
the performance, resilience, and maintainability of the system of systems.Maier (Maier 1998) discusses four general principles for the architecting of com-plex systems of systems:1. Design systems so that they can deliver value if they are incomplete. Where a system is composed of several other systems, it should not just be useful if all of 
its components are working properly. Rather, there should be several ﬁstable 

intermediate formsﬂ so that a partial system works and can do useful things.2. Be realistic about what can be controlled. The best performance from a SoS may be 

achieved when an individual or group exerts control over the overall system and its 

constituents. If there is no control, then delivering value from the SoS is difficult. 

However, attempts to overcontrol the SoS are likely to lead to resistance from the 

individual system owners and consequent delays in system deployment and evolution.3.
 Focus on the system interfaces. To build a successful system of systems, you 

have to design interfaces so that the system elements can interoperate. It is 
