˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
Computers have a central and growing role in commerce, industry, government, 
medicine, education, entertainment and society at large. Software engineers are 

those who contribute by direct participation or by teaching, to the analysis, spec-
ification, design, development, certification, maintenance and testing of software 

systems. Because of their roles in developing software systems, software engi
-
neers have significant opportunities to do good or cause harm, to enable others to 

do good or cause harm, or to influence others to do good or cause harm. To 

ensure, as much as possible, that their efforts will be used for good, software 

engineers must commit themselves to making software engineering a beneficial 

and respected profession. In accordance with that commitment, software engi-
neers shall adhere to the following Code of Ethics and Professional Practiceƒ.The Code contains eight Principles related to the behaviour of and decisions 
made by professional software engineers, including practitioners, educators, 

managers, supervisors and policy makers, as well as trainees and students of 
the profession. The Principles identify the ethically responsible relationships 
in which individuals, groups, and organizations participate and the primary 
obligations within these relationships. The Clauses of each Principle are illus-
trations of some of the obligations included in these relationships. These obli-
gations are founded in the software engineer™s humanity, in special care owed 
to people affected by the work of software engineers, and the unique elements 
of the practice of software engineering. The Code prescribes these as obliga
-
tions of anyone claiming to be or aspiring to be a software engineerƒ.In any situation where different people have different views and objectives, you are 
likely to be faced with ethical dilemmas. For example, if you disagree, in principle, with 

the policies of more senior management in the company, how should you react? Clearly, 

this depends on the people involved and the nature of the disagreement. Is it best to argue 

a case for your position from within the organization or to resign in principle? If you feel 

that there are problems with a software project, when do you reveal these problems to 

management? If you discuss these while they are just a suspicion, you may be overreact-
ing to a situation; if you leave it too long, it may be impossible to resolve the difficulties.We all face such ethical dilemmas in our professional lives, and, fortunately, in most cases they are either relatively minor or can be resolved without too much dif
-
ficulty. Where they cannot be resolved, the engineer is faced with, perhaps, another 
problem. The principled action may be to resign from their job, but this may well 
affect others such as their partner or their children.A difficult situation for professional engineers arises when their employer acts in an unethical way. Say a company is responsible for developing a safety-critical 

system and, because of time pressure, falsifies the safety validation records. Is the 
engineer™s responsibility to maintain confidentiality or to alert the customer or 

publicize, in some way, that the delivered system may be unsafe?ƒACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices, short  
version Preamble.  http://www.acm.org/about/se-code  Copyright © 1999 by the Association for  

Computing Machinery, Inc. and the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
