˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜˜2. The time or the number of transactions between system failures plus the total elapsed time or total number of transactions. This is used to measure ROCOF 

and MTTF.3. The repair or restart time after a system failure that leads to loss of service. This 
is used in the measurement of availability. Availability does not just depend on 

the time between failures but also on the time required to get the system back 

into operation.The time units that may be used in these metrics are calendar time or a discrete unit such as number of transactions. You should use calendar time for systems that 
are in continuous operation. Monitoring systems, such as process control systems, 
fall into this category. Therefore, the ROCOF might be the number of failures per 
day. Systems that process transactions such as bank ATMs or airline reservation 

systems have variable loads placed on them depending on the time of day. In these 
cases, the unit of ﬁtimeﬂ used could be the number of transactions; that is, the 

ROCOF would be number of failed transactions per N thousand transactions.Reliability testing is a statistical testing process that aims to measure the  reliability 
of a system. Reliability metrics such as POFOD, the probability of failure on 

demand, and ROCOF, the rate of occurrence of failure, may be used to quantita-
tively specify the required software reliability. You can check on the reliability test-
ing process if the system has achieved that required reliability level.The process of measuring the reliability of a system is sometimes called statistical 
testing (Figure 11.13). The statistical testing process is explicitly geared to reliability 

measurement rather than fault finding. Prowell et al
. (Prowell et al. 1999) give a good 

description of statistical testing in their book on Cleanroom software engineering.There are four stages in the statistical testing process:1. You start by studying existing systems of the same type to understand how these 

are used in practice. This is important as you are trying to measure the reliability 
as experienced by system users. Your aim is to define an operational profile. An 
operational profile identifies classes of system inputs and the probability that 

these inputs will occur in normal use.2.
 You then construct a set of test data that reflect the operational profile. This 

means that you create test data with the same probability distribution as the test 
data for the systems that you have studied. Normally, you use a test data genera-
tor to support this process.3. You test the system using these data and count the number and type of failures 
that occur. The times of these failures are also logged. As I discussed in Chapter 
10, the time units chosen should be appropriate for the reliability metric used.ComputeobservedreliabilityApply tests tosystemPrepare testdatasetIdentifyoperationalprofilesFigure 11.13 Statistical testing for reliability 
measurement 