open-source code. You can include the code in proprietary systems that are sold. If 
you use open-source components, you must acknowledge the original creator of 

the code. The MIT license is a variant of the BSD license with similar conditions.Licensing issues are important because if you use open-source software as part of a software product, then you may be obliged by the terms of the license to make your 
own product open source. If you are trying to sell your software, you may wish to 
keep it secret. This means that you may wish to avoid using GPL-licensed open-
source software in its development.If you are building software that runs on an open-source platform but that does 
not reuse open-source components, then licenses are not a problem. However, if 

you embed open-source software in your software, you need processes and data-
bases to keep track of what™s been used and their license conditions. Bayersdorfer 

(Bayersdorfer 2007) suggests that companies managing projects that use open 

source should:1. Establish a system for maintaining information about open-source components that are downloaded and used. You have to keep a copy of the license for each 
component that was valid at the time the component was used. Licenses may 

change, so you need to know the conditions that you have agreed to.2. Be aware of the different types of licenses and understand how a component is 
licensed before it is used. You may decide to use a component in one system but 
not in another because you plan to use these systems in different ways.3. Be aware of evolution pathways for components. You need to know a bit about 
the open-source project where components are developed to understand how 

they might change in future.4. Educate people about open source. It™s not enough to have procedures in place 

to ensure compliance with license conditions. You also need to educate devel-
opers about open source and open-source licensing.5.
 Have auditing systems in place. Developers, under tight deadlines, might be 

tempted to break the terms of a license. If possible, you should have software in 
place to detect and stop this.6. Participate in the open-source community. If you rely on open-source products, 
you should participate in the community and help support their development.The open-source approach is one of several business models for software. In this 
model, companies release the source of their software and sell add-on services and 
advice in association with this. They may also sell cloud-based software servicesŠ
an attractive option for users who do not have the expertise to manage their own 

open-source system and also specialized versions of their system for particular cli-
ents. Open-source is therefore likely to increase in importance as a way of develop-
ing and distributing software.˜˜˚ˆ˜˜ ˜˜˜
