˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜required level of dependability as well as acceptable system performance is to be 
achieved, then the development time may have to be extended and the budget increased.
Many bad procurement decisions stem from political rather than technical causes. 
Senior management may wish to have more control and so demand that a single system 

is used across an organization. Suppliers may be chosen because they have a long-
standing relationship with a company rather than because they offer the best technology. 

Managers may wish to maintain compatibility with existing systems because they feel 

threatened by new technologies. As I discuss in Chapter 20, people  who do not under-
stand the required system are often responsible for procurement decisions. Engineering 

issues do not necessarily play a major part in their decision-making process.System development is a complex process in which the elements that are part of the 
system are developed or purchased and then integrated to create the final system. 

The system requirements are the bridge between the conceptual design and the 

development processes. During conceptual design, business and high-level func-tional and non-functional system requirements are defined. You can think of this as 
the start of development, hence the overlapping processes shown in Figure 19.1. 

Once contracts for the system elements have been agreed, more detailed require-
ments engineering takes place.Figure 19.
10 is a model of the systems development process. Systems engineer-ing processes usually follow a ﬁwaterfallﬂ process model similar to the one that I 

discussed in Chapter 2. Although the waterfall model is inappropriate for most types 
of software development, higher-level systems engineering processes are plan-driven 
processes that still follow this model.Plan-driven processes are used in systems engineering because different elements of the system are independently developed. 
Different contractors are working con
-currently on separate subsystems. Therefore, the interfaces to these elements have to 
be designed before development begins. For systems that include hardware and other 
equipment, changes during development can be very expensive or, sometimes, prac-
tically impossible. It is essential therefore, that the system requirements are fully 

understood before hardware development or building work begins.One of the most confusing aspects of systems engineering is that companies use 
different terminology for each stage of the process. Sometimes, requirements engi-
neering is part of the development process, and sometimes it is a separate activity. 

However, after conceptual design, there are seven fundamental development activities:1. Requirements engineering is the process of refining, analyzing, and documenting 
the high-level and business requirements identified in the conceptual design. 
I 
have covered the most important requirements engineering activities in Chapter 4.2. Architectural design overlaps significantly with the requirements engineering 

process. The process involves establishing the overall architecture of the system, 
