˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜those invoices that have been paid, a receipt is issued. For those invoices that have not been paid within the allowed payment time, a reminder is issued.Pipe and filter systems are best suited to batch processing systems and embedded systems where there is limited user interaction. Interactive systems are difficult to 
write using the pipe and filter model because of the need for a stream of data to be 
processed. While simple textual input and output can be modeled in this way, graph-
ical user interfaces have more complex I/O formats and a control strategy that is 

based on events such as mouse clicks or menu selections. It is difficult to implement 

this as a sequential stream that conforms to the pipe and filter model.Application systems are intended to meet a business or an organizational need. All 
businesses have much in commonŠthey need to hire people, issue invoices, keep 

accounts, and so on. Businesses operating in the same sector use common sector-

specific applications. Therefore, as well as general business functions, all phone 

companies need systems to connect and meter calls, manage their network and issue 
bills to customers. Consequently, the application systems used by these businesses 
also have much in common.These commonalities have led to the development of software architectures that describe the structure and organization of particular types of software systems. 

Application architectures encapsulate the principal characteristics of a class of sys-
tems. For example, in real-time systems, there might be generic architectural models 
of different system types, such as data collection systems or monitoring systems. 

Although instances of these systems differ in detail, the common architectural struc-
ture can be reused when developing new systems of the same type.The application architecture may be reimplemented when developing new sys-tems. However, for many business systems, application architecture reuse is implicit 

when generic application systems are configured to create a new application. We 

see this in the widespread use of Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems and 

off-the-shelf configurable application systems, such as systems for accounting and 

stock control. These systems have a standard architecture and components. The 

components are configured and adapted to create a specific business application. 
Architectural patterns for controlThere are specific Architectural patterns that reflect commonly used ways of organizing control in a system. 
These include centralized control, based on one component calling other components, and event-based control, 
where the system reacts to external events.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/archpatterns/