˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜
˜˜
the wilderness weather system, availability and reliability are the most important 
properties because the costs of repair may be very high. For the Mentcare patient 

information system, security and resilience are particularly important because of the 
sensitive private data that is maintained and the need for the system to be available 
for patient consultations.Other system properties are closely related to these five dependability properties and influence a system™s dependability:1. Repairability System failures are inevitable, but the disruption caused by failure 
can be minimized if the system can be repaired quickly. It must be possible to 
diagnose the problem, access the component that has failed, and make changes 
to fix that component. Repairability in software is enhanced when the organiza
-
tion using the system has access to the source code and has the skills to make 
changes to it. Open-source software makes this easier, but the reuse of compo-
nents can make it more difficult.2. Maintainability As systems are used, new requirements emerge, and it is impor-tant to maintain the value of a system by changing it to include these new 

requirements. Maintainable software is software that can be adapted economi-
cally to cope with new requirements, and where there is a low probability that 
making changes will introduce new errors into the system.3. Error tolerance 
This property can be considered as part of usability and reflects 

the extent to which the system has been designed, so that user input errors are 

avoided and tolerated. When user errors occur, the system should, as far as pos-
sible, detect these errors and either fix them automatically or request the user to 
re-input their data.The notion of system dependability as an encompassing property was introduced 
because the dependability properties of availability, security, reliability, safety, and 

resilience are closely related. Safe system operation usually depends on the system 

being available and operating reliably. A system may become unreliable because an 

intruder has corrupted its data. Denial-of-service attacks on a system are intended to 
DependabilityAvailability
ReliabilitySecuritySafetyResilienceThe ability of the system 
to protect itself against deliberate or accidental intrusionThe ability of the system to resist and recover from damaging events
The ability of the system 
to operate without catastrophic failureThe ability of the system 
to deliver services as specifiedThe ability of the system 
to deliver services when requestedFigure 10.1 Principal dependability  
properties 