design the controller workstations and software engineers, and user interface design-ers are responsible for the software in the system.The involvement of a range of professional disciplines is essential because of the 
different types of components in complex systems. However, differences and mis-understandings between disciplines can lead to inappropriate design decisions. 
These poor decisions can delay the system™s development or make it less suitable for 
its intended purpose. There are three reasons why there may be misunderstandings 
or other differences between engineers with different backgrounds:1. D
ifferent professional disciplines often use the same words, but these words 
do not always mean the same thing. Consequently, misunderstandings are 
common in discussions between engineers from different backgrounds. If 

these are not discovered and resolved during system development, they can 

lead to errors in delivered systems. For example, an electronic engineer may 

know a bit about C programming but may not understand that a method in 

Java is like a function in C.2. Each discipline makes assumptions about what other disciplines can or cannot 
do. These assumptions are often based on an inadequate understanding of what 
is possible. For example, an electronic engineer may decide that all signal pro-cessing (a computationally intensive task) should be done by software to sim
-
plify the hardware design. However, this may mean significantly greater 

software effort to ensure that the system processor can cope with the amount of 
computation that is resolved.3. D
isciplines try to protect their professional boundaries and may argue for certain 
design decisions because these decisions will call for their professional expertise. 

Therefore, a software engineer may argue for a software-based door locking sys-tem in a building, although a mechanical, key-based system may be more reliable.My experience is that interdisciplinary working can be successful only if enough time is available for these issues to be discussed and resolved. This requires regular 
face-to-face discussions and a flexible approach from everyone involved in the sys
-
tems engineering process.Systems
engineering
Electricalengineering
ErgonomicsSoftware
engineering
Civil
engineering
Architecture
User interface
designElectronic engineering
Mechanical engineering
Figure 19.2 Professional 
disciplines involved in 

ATC systems engineering˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜˜
