˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜˘˘The risk planning process develops strategies to manage the key risks that threaten 
the project. For each risk, you have to think of actions that you might take to mini-
mize the disruption to the project if the problem identified in the risk occurs. You 

should also think about the information that you need to collect while monitoring the 

project so that emerging problems can be detected before they become serious.In risk planning, you have to ask ﬁwhat-ifﬂ questions that consider both individual 
risks, combinations of risks, and external factors that affect these risks. For example, 
questions that you might ask are:1. What if several engineers are ill at the same time?2. What if an economic downturn leads to budget cuts of 20% for the project?3.
 What if the performance of open-source software is inadequate and the only 
expert on that open-source software leaves?4. What if the company that supplies and maintains software components goes out 
of business?5. What if the customer fails to deliver the revised requirements as predicted?Based on the answers to these ﬁwhat-ifﬂ questions, you may devise strategies for managing the risks. Figure 22.5 shows possible risk management strategies that have 
been identified for the key risks (i.e., those that are serious or intolerable) shown in 
Figure 22.4. These strategies fall into three categories:1. Avoidance strategies Following these strategies means that the probability that the risk will arise is reduced. An example of a risk avoidance strategy is the 

strategy for dealing with defective components shown in Figure 22.5.2. Minimization strategies Following these strategies means that the impact of the 
risk is reduced. An example of a risk minimization strategy is the strategy for 
staff illness shown in Figure 22.5.3. Contingency plans Following these strategies means that you are prepared for 
the worst and have a strategy in place to deal with it. An example of a contin-
gency strategy is the strategy for organizational financial problems that I have 
shown in Figure 22.5.You can see a clear analogy here with the strategies used in critical systems 
to ensure reliability, security, and safety, where you must avoid, tolerate, or 

recover from failures. Obviously, it is best to use a strategy that avoids the risk. 

If this is not possible, you should use a strategy that reduces the chances that the 

risk will have serious effects. Finally, you should have strategies in place to 
