˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Incremental development in some form is now the most common approach for 
the development of application systems and software products. This approach can 
be either plan-driven, agile or, more usually, a mixture of these approaches. In a 

plan-driven approach, the system increments are identified in advance; if an agile 

approach is adopted, the early increments are identified, but the development of 

later increments depends on progress and customer priorities.Incremental software development, which is a fundamental part of agile 
development methods, is better than a waterfall approach for systems whose 

requirements are likely to change during the development process. This is the 

case for most business systems and software products. Incremental development 

reflects the way that we solve problems. We rarely work out a complete prob-
lem solution in advance but move toward a solution in a series of steps, back
-
tracking when we realize that we have made a mistake. By developing the 

software incrementally, it is cheaper and easier to make changes in the software 

as it is being developed.Each increment or version of the system incorporates some of the functional
-ity that is needed by the customer. Generally, the early increments of the system 

include the most important or most urgently required functionality. This means 

that the customer or user can evaluate the system at a relatively early stage in 

the development to see if it delivers what is required. If not, then only the cur-
rent increment has to be changed and, possibly, new functionality defined for 

later increments.Incremental development has three major advantages over the waterfall model:1.
 The cost of implementing requirements changes is reduced. The amount of 

analysis and documentation that has to be redone is significantly less than is 

required with the waterfall model.2.
 It is easier to get customer feedback on the development work that has been 

done. Customers can comment on demonstrations of the software and see how Concurrent
activities
Validation
Finalversion
Development
Intermediate
versions
Specification
Initialversion
OutlinedescriptionFigure 2.2 Incremental development