˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜involve more system configuration to reflect the local environment where it is used, the transfer of data from existing systems, and the preparation of user documentation 
and training. At this stage, you may also have to reconfigure other systems in the 

environment to ensure that the new system interoperates with them.Although system deployment is straightforward in principle, it is often more diffi-cult than anticipated. The user environment may be different from that anticipated by 

the system developers. Adapting the system to make it work in an unexpected environ-
ment can be difficult. The existing system data may require extensive clean-up, and 

parts of it may involve more effort than expected. The interfaces to other systems may 

not be properly documented. You may find that the planned operational processes 
have to be changed because they are not compatible with the operational processes for 

other systems. User training is often difficult to arrange, with the consequence that, 

initially at least, users are unable to access the capabilities of the system. System 

deployment can therefore take much longer and cost much more than anticipated.Operational processes are the processes that are involved in using the system as 

intended by its designers. For example, operators of an air traffic control system 

follow specific processes when aircraft enter and leave airspace, when they have to 

change height or speed, when an emergency occurs, and so on. For new systems, 

these operational processes have to be defined and documented during the system 

development process. Operators may have to be trained and other work processes 

adapted to make effective use of the new system. Undetected problems may arise 

at this stage because the system specification may contain errors or omissions. 

While the system may perform to specification, its functions may not meet the real 

operational needs. Consequently, the operators may not use the system as its 

designers intended.Although the designers of operational processes may have based their process 
designs on extensive user studies, there is always a period of ﬁdomesticationﬂ 

(Stewart and Williams 2005) when users adapt to the new system and work out 

practical processes of how to use it. While user interface design is important, studies 

have shown that, given time, users can adapt to complex interfaces. As they become 

experienced, they prefer ways of using the system quickly rather than easily. This 

means that when designing systems, you should not simply cater for inexperienced 

users but you should design the user interface to be adaptable for experienced users.
Some people think that system operators are a source of problems in a system and that we should move toward automated systems where operator involvement is min-
imized. In my opinion, there are two problems with this approach:1. It is likely to increase the technical complexity of the system because it has to be designed to cope with all anticipated failure modes. This increases the costs and 