˜˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
A protection system is a specialized system that is associated with some other sys
-tem. This is usually a control system for some process, such as a chemical manu
-facturing process, or an equipment control system, such as the system on a 

driverless train. An example of a protection system might be a system on a train 

that detects if the train has gone through a red signal. If there is no indication that 

the train control system is slowing down the train, then the protection system auto-
matically applies the train brakes to bring it to a halt. Protection systems indepen-
dently monitor their environment. If sensors indicate a problem that the controlled 

system is not dealing with, then the protection system is activated to shut down the 

process or equipment.Figure 11.
6 illustrates the relationship between a protection system and a con
-trolled system. The protection system monitors both the controlled equipment and 
the environment. If a problem is detected, it issues commands to the actuators to shut 
down the system or invoke other protection mechanisms such as opening a pressure-
release valve. Notice that there are two sets of sensors. One set is used for normal 

system monitoring and the other specifically for the protection system. In the event 

of sensor failure, backups are in place that will allow the protection system to con-
tinue in operation. The system may also have redundant actuators.A protection system only includes the critical functionality that is required to 
move the system from a potentially unsafe state to a safe state (which could be sys-
tem shutdown). It is an instance of a more general fault-tolerant architecture in which 
a principal system is supported by a smaller and simpler backup system that only 

includes essential functionality. For example, the control software for the U.S. Space 
Shuttle had a backup system with ﬁget you homeﬂ functionality. That is, the backup 
system could land the vehicle if the principal control system failed but had no other 
control functions.ProtectionsensorsSystem environment
ActuatorsControlledequipmentControl systemProtectionsystemSensorsFigure 11.6 Protection system architecture 