˜˚˛˝˙˙ˆˇ˘˜˜
˜˙˚iterative developmentAn approach to software development where the processes of specification, design, programming and testing are interleaved.J2EEJava 2 Platform Enterprise Edition. A complex middleware system that supports 
the˜development of component-based web applications in Java. It includes a  component model for Java components, APIs, services, etc.JavaA widely used object-oriented programming language that was designed by Sun 
(now Oracle) with the aim of platform independence.language processing systemA system that translates one language into another. For example, a compiler is a 
language-processing system that translates program source code to object code.legacy systemA socio-technical system that is useful or essential to an organization but which has 
been developed using obsolete technology or methods. Because legacy systems 
often perform critical business functions, they have to be maintained.Lehman™s LawsA set of hypotheses about the factors that influence the evolution of complex  software systems.
maintenanceThe process of making changes to a system after it has been put into operation.mean time to failure (MTTF)The average time between observed system failures. Used in reliability specification.
Mentcare systemMental Health Care Patient Management System. This is a system used to record 
information about consultations and treatments prescribed for people suffering 
from mental health problems. Used as a case study in this book.middlewareThe infrastructure software in a distributed system. It helps manage interactions 
between the distributed entities in the system and the system databases. Examples 
of middleware are an object request broker and a transaction management system.misuse caseA description of a possible attack on a system that is associated with a system use˜case.
model-driven architecture (MDA)An approach to software development based on the construction of a set of system 
models, which can be automatically or semi-automatically processed to generate an 
executable system.