˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜ customers, and keep track of change proposals. CM tools range from simple tools that support a single configuration management task, such as bug tracking, to inte-
grated environments that support all configuration management activities.Agile development, where components and systems are changed several times a day, is impossible without using CM tools. The definitive versions of components 
are held in a shared project repository, and developers copy them into their own 

workspace. They make changes to the code and then use system-building tools to 

create a new system on their own computer for testing. Once they are happy with the 

changes made, they return the modified components to the project repository. This 

makes the modified components available to other team members.The development of a software product or custom software system takes place in 
three distinct phases:1. A development phase 
where the development team is responsible for managing 
the software configuration and new functionality is being added to the software. 
The development team decides on the changes to be made to the system.2. A system testing phase where a version of the system is released internally for 
testing. This may be the responsibility of a quality management team or an indi
-
vidual or group within the development team. At this stage, no new functionality 
is added to the system. The changes made at this stage are bug fixes, perfor-mance improvements, and security vulnerability repairs. There may be some 

customer involvement as beta testers during this phase.3. A release phase where the software is released to customers for use. After 

the release has been distributed, customers may submit bug reports and 

change requests. New versions of the released system may be developed to 

repair bugs and vulnerabilities and to include new features suggested by 

customers.For large systems, there is never just one ﬁworkingﬂ version of a system; there are 
always several versions of the system at different stages of development. Several 
ComponentversionsReleasemanagementChangeproposalsSystem
releasesChangemanagementSystem
versionsVersion
managementSystem
buildingFigure 25.1  Configuration  
management activities