˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
Figure 1.2 Essential attributes of good softwareProduct characteristicDescriptionAcceptabilitySoftware must be acceptable to the type of users for which it is 
designed. This means that it must be understandable, usable, and 
compatible with other systems that they use.Dependability and securitySoftware dependability includes a range of characteristics including 
reliability, security, and safety. Dependable software should not 
cause physical or economic damage in the event of system failure. 
Software has to be secure so that malicious users cannot access or 
damage the system.EfficiencySoftware should not make wasteful use of system resources such  
as memory and processor cycles. Efficiency therefore includes 
responsiveness, processing time, resource utilization, etc.MaintainabilitySoftware should be written in such a way that it can evolve to  
meet the changing needs of customers. This is a critical attribute 
because software change is an inevitable requirement of a  
changing business environment.and always try to discover solutions to problems even when there are no appli-
cable theories and methods. Engineers also recognize that they must work 

within organizational and financial constraints, and they must look for solutions 
within these constraints.2. All aspects of software production Software engineering is not just concerned 
with the technical processes of software development. It also includes activities 
such as software project management and the development of tools, methods, 
and theories to support software development.Engineering is about getting results of the required quality within schedule and budget. This often involves making compromisesŠengineers cannot be perfection-
ists. People writing programs for themselves, however, can spend as much time as 

they wish on the program development.In general, software engineers adopt a systematic and organized approach to their work, as this is often the most effective way to produce high-quality software. 

However, engineering is all about selecting the most appropriate method for a set of 
circumstances, so a more creative, less formal approach to development may be the 

right one for some kinds of software. A more flexible software process that accom-
modates rapid change is particularly appropriate for the development of interactive 
web-based systems and mobile apps, which require a blend of software and graphi-
cal design skills.Software engineering is important for two reasons:1. More and more, individuals and society rely on advanced software systems. We need 

to be able to produce reliable and trustworthy systems economically and quickly.2. It is usually cheaper, in the long run, to use software engineering methods and 
techniques for professional software systems rather than just write programs as 