˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜staff might reveal that the team is having problems with a software fault in the com-munications systems. The project manager can then immediately assign a communi-
cations expert to the problem to help find and solve the problem.The project plan always evolves during the development process because of 
requirements changes, technology issues, and development problems. Development 

planning is intended to ensure that the project plan remains a useful document for staff 

to understand what is to be achieved and when it is to be delivered. Therefore, the 

schedule, cost estimate, and risks all have to be revised as the software is developed.If an agile method is used, there is still a need for a project startup plan because 
regardless of the approach used, the company still needs to plan how resources will 
be allocated to a project. However, this is not a detailed plan, and you only need to 
include essential information about the work breakdown and project schedule. 

During development, an informal project plan and effort estimates are drawn up for 
each release of the software, with the whole team involved in the planning process. 

Some aspects of agile planning have already been covered in Chapter 3, and I  discuss other approaches in Section 23.4.
In principle, the price of a software system developed for a customer is simply the 

cost of development plus profit for the developer. In practice, however, the relation-
ship between the project cost and the price quoted to the customer is not usually so 

simple. When calculating a price, you take broader organizational, economic, polit-
ical, and business considerations into account (Figure 23.1). You need to think 

about organizational concerns, the risks associated with the project, and the type of 

contract that will be used. These issues may cause the price to be adjusted upward 

or downward.To illustrate some of the project pricing issues, consider the following scenario:A small software company, PharmaSoft, employs 10 software engineers. It has just finished a large project but only has contracts in place that require five 
development staff. However, it is bidding for a very large contract with a 

major pharmaceutical company that requires 30 person-years of effort over 

two years. The project will not start for at least 12 months but, if granted, it 
will transform the finances of the company.PharmaSoft gets an opportunity to bid on a project that requires six people 
and has to be completed in 10 months. The costs (including overheads of this 
project) are estimated at $1.2 million. However, to improve its competitive 

position, PharmaSoft decides to bid a price to the customer of $0.8 million. 

This means that, although it loses money on this contract, it can retain special-
ist staff for the more profitable future projects that are likely to come on stream 
in a year™s time.