˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜and manage the operation of that actuator. This model allows data to be collected quickly from the sensor (before it is overwritten by the next input) and enables pro
-
cessing and the associated actuator response to be carried out later.A real-time system has to respond to stimuli that occur at different times. You 
therefore have to organize the system architecture so that, as soon as a stimulus is 
received, control is transferred to the correct handler. This is impractical in sequen-
tial programs. Consequently, real-time software systems are normally designed as a 
set of concurrent, cooperating processes. To support the management of these pro-
cesses, the execution platform on which the real-time system executes may include a 
real-time operating system (discussed in Section 
21.4). The functions provided by 

this operating system are accessed through the runtime support system for the real-

time programming language that is used.There is no standard embedded system design process. Rather, different processes are used that depend on the type of system, available hardware, and the organization 
that is developing the system. The following activities may be included in a real-
time software design process:1. Platform selection In this activity, you choose an execution platform for the 
system, that is, the hardware and the real-time operating system to be used. 

Factors that influence these choices include the timing constraints on the sys-
tem, limitations on power available, the experience of the development team, 

and the price target for the delivered system.2. Stimuli/response identification This involves identifying the stimuli that the 

system must process and the associated response or responses for each stimulus.StimulusResponseClear alarmsSwitch off all active alarms; switch off all lights 
that have been switched on.Console panic button positiveInitiate alarm; turn on lights around console; call 
police.Power supply failureCall service technician.Sensor failureCall service technician.Single sensor positiveInitiate alarm; turn on lights around site of 
positive sensor.Two or more sensors positiveInitiate alarm; turn on lights around sites of 
positive sensors; call police with location of 
suspected break-in.Voltage drop of between 10% 
and 20%Switch to battery backup; run power supply test.Voltage drop of more than 
20%Switch to battery backup; initiate alarm; call 
police, run power supply test.Figure 21.1 Stimuli  and responses for a 
burglar alarm system