˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜For new software systems developed using modern software engineering processes, 
such as agile development and software product lines, it is possible to plan how to 

integrate system development and evolution. More and more companies understand 

that the system development process is a whole life-cycle process. Separating soft-
ware development and software evolution is unhelpful and leads to higher costs. 

However, as I have discussed, there is still a huge number of legacy systems that are 

critical business systems. These have to be extended and adapted to changing 

e-business practices.Most organizations have a limited budget for maintaining and upgrading their 
portfolio of legacy systems. They have to decide how to get the best return on their 

investment. This involves making a realistic assessment of their legacy systems and 
then deciding on the most appropriate strategy for evolving these systems. There are 
four strategic options:1. Scrap the system completely This option should be chosen when the system is not making an effective contribution to business processes. This usually occurs 

when business processes have changed since the system was installed and are 
no longer reliant on the legacy system.2. Leave the system unchanged and continue with regular maintenance 
This option 
should be chosen when the system is still required but is fairly stable and the 
system users make relatively few change requests.3. Reengineer the system to improve its maintainability This option should be chosen 

when the system quality has been degraded by change and where new change to 

the system is still being proposed. This process may include developing new inter-face components so that the original system can work with other, newer systems.4. Replace all or part of the system with a new system This option should be chosen 

when factors, such as new hardware, mean that the old system cannot continue 

in operation, or where off-the-shelf systems would allow the new system to be 

developed at a reasonable cost. In many cases, an evolutionary replacement 

strategy can be adopted where major system components are replaced by off-
the-shelf systems with other components reused wherever possible.When you are assessing a legacy system, you have to look at it from both a busi-ness perspective and a technical perspective (Warren 1998). From a business 
 perspective, you have to decide whether or not the business really needs the system. 
From a technical perspective, you have to assess the quality of the application soft
-
ware and the system™s support software and hardware. You then use a combination 
of the business value and the system quality to inform your decision on what to do 
with the legacy system.For example, assume that an organization has 10 legacy systems. You should 
assess the quality and the business value of each of these systems. You may then 

create a chart showing relative business value and system quality. An example of 
