˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˘
˜ˇ
˜˜
1. Stand-alone applications These are application systems that run on a personal computer or apps that run on a mobile device. They include all necessary func-
tionality and may not need to be connected to a network. Examples of such 

applications are office applications on a PC, CAD programs, photo manipula-
tion software, travel apps, productivity apps, and so on.2. Interactive transaction-based applications These are applications that execute 
on a remote computer and that are accessed by users from their own computers, 
phones, or tablets. Obviously, these include web applications such as e-commerce 

applications where you interact with a remote system to buy goods and services. 
This class of application also includes business systems, where a business 

provides access to its systems through a web browser or special-purpose client 
program and cloud-based services, such as mail and photo sharing. Interactive 
applications often incorporate a large data store that is accessed and updated in 
each transaction.3. Embedded control systems These are software control systems that control and manage hardware devices. Numerically, there are probably more embedded sys
-
tems than any other type of system. Examples of embedded systems include the 

software in a mobile (cell) phone, software that controls antilock braking in a 
car, and software in a microwave oven to control the cooking process.4. Batch processing systems These are business systems that are designed to pro-
cess data in large batches. They process large numbers of individual inputs to 
create corresponding outputs. Examples of batch systems are periodic billing 

systems, such as phone billing systems, and salary payment systems.5. Entertainment systems These are systems for personal use that are intended to 
entertain the user. Most of these systems are games of one kind or another, 

which may run on special-purpose console hardware. The quality of the user 

interaction offered is the most important distinguishing characteristic of enter
-
tainment systems.6. Systems for modeling and simulation 
These are systems that are developed by 
scientists and engineers to model physical processes or situations, which include 
many separate, interacting objects. These are often computationally intensive 

and require high-performance parallel systems for execution.7. Data collection and analysis systems Data collection systems are systems that collect data from their environment and send that data to other systems for pro
-
cessing. The software may have to interact with sensors and often is installed in 

a hostile environment such as inside an engine or in a remote location. ﬁBig 

dataﬂ analysis may involve cloud-based systems carrying out statistical analysis 

and looking for relationships in the collected data.8. Systems of systems These are systems, used in enterprises and other large organ-
izations, that are composed of a number of other software systems. Some of 

these may be generic software products, such as an ERP system. Other systems 
in the assembly may be specially written for that environment.