˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜2. The application system may be based on assumptions that are practically impos
-sible to change. The customer must therefore adapt its business to reflect these 
assumptions.3. Choosing the right application system for an enterprise can be a difficult process, 

especially as many of these systems are not well documented. Making the wrong 

choice means that it may be impossible to make the new system work as required.4.
 There may be a lack of local expertise to support systems development. 

Consequently, the customer has to rely on the vendor and external consultants 
for development advice. This advice may be geared to selling products and ser-
vices, with insufficient time taken to understand the real needs of the customer.5. The system vendor controls system support and evolution. It may go out of busi-
ness, be taken over, or make changes that cause difficulties for customers.Application systems may be used as individual systems or in combination, where 
two or more systems are integrated. Individual systems consist of a generic application 

from a single vendor that is configured to customer requirements. Integrated systems 

involve integrating the functionality of individual systems, often from different vendors, 

to create a new application system. Figure 
15.12 summarizes the differences between 
these different approaches. I discuss application system integration in Section 15.4.2.Configurable application systems are generic application systems that may be 

designed to support a particular business type, business activity, or, sometimes, a 

complete business enterprise. For example, a system produced for dentists may han-
dle appointments, reminders, dental records, patient recall, and billing. At a larger 
scale, an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system may support the manufactur-
ing, ordering, and customer relationship management processes in a large company.Domain-specific application systems, such as systems to support a business function 
(e.g., document management), provide functionality that is likely to be required by a 

range of potential users. However, they also incorporate built-in assumptions about how 
Configurable application systemsApplication system integrationSingle product that provides the functionality 
required by a customerSeveral different application systems are 
integrated˜to provide customized functionalityBased on a generic solution and standardized 
processesFlexible solutions may be developed for customer 
processesDevelopment focus is on system configurationDevelopment focus is on system integrationSystem vendor is responsible for maintenanceSystem owner is responsible for maintenanceSystem vendor provides the platform for the systemSystem owner provides the platform for the system
Figure 15.12  Individual and 
integrated˜application 
systems