˜˜˚˙˜˜˜
˜˜
The advantage of stories is that everyone can easily relate to them. We found this approach to be particularly useful to get information from a wider community than we could realistically interview. We made the stories available on a wiki and invited 
teachers and students from across the country to comment on them.These high-level stories do not go into detail about a system, but they can be 
developed into more specific scenarios. Scenarios are descriptions of example user 
interaction sessions. I think that it is best to present scenarios in a structured way 

rather than as narrative text. User stories used in agile methods such as Extreme 

Programming, are actually narrative scenarios rather than general stories to help 

elicit requirements.A scenario starts with an outline of the interaction. During the elicitation process, 
details are added to create a complete description of that interaction. At its most 

general, a scenario may include:1. A description of what the system and users expect when the scenario starts.2. A description of the normal flow of events in the scenario.3. A description of what can go wrong and how resulting problems can be handled.4. Information about other activities that might be going on at the same time.5. A description of the system state when the scenario ends.As an example of a scenario, Figure 
4.10 describes what happens when a student 
uploads photos to the KidsTakePics system, as explained in Figure 4.9. The key dif-ference between this system and other systems is that a teacher moderates the 

uploaded photos to check that they are suitable for sharing.You can see this is a much more detailed description than the story in Figure 4.9, and so it can be used to propose requirements for the iLearn system. Like stories, 

scenarios can be used to facilitate discussions with stakeholders who sometimes may 

have different ways of achieving the same result.Figure 4.9 A user story for the iLearn systemPhoto sharing in the classroomJack is a primary school teacher in Ullapool (a village in northern Scotland). He has decided that a class project should be focused on the fishing industry in the area, looking at the history, development, and economic impact 
of fishing. As part of this project, pupils are asked to gather and share reminiscences from relatives, use newspa-

per archives, and collect old photographs related to fishing and fishing communities in the area. Pupils use an 
iLearn wiki to gather together fishing stories and SCRAN (a history resources site) to access newspaper archives 
and photographs. However, Jack also needs a photo-sharing site because he wants pupils to take and comment 
on each other™s photos and to upload scans of old photographs that they may have in their families.Jack sends an email to a primary school teachers™ group, which he is a member of, to see if anyone can rec-
ommend an appropriate system. Two teachers reply, and both suggest that he use KidsTakePics, a photo-sharing 

site that allows teachers to check and moderate content. As KidsTakePics is not integrated with the iLearn 
authentication service, he sets up a teacher and a class account. He uses the iLearn setup service to add 

KidsTakePics to the services seen by the pupils in his class so that when they log in, they can immediately use 

the system to upload photos from their mobile devices and class computers.