˜˚˛˝ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
document that is stored at n10, this search is routed through nodes n3, n6, and n9 to n10. When the document is finally discovered, the node holding the document then 
sends it to the requesting node directly by making a peer-to-peer connection.This decentralized architecture has the advantage of being highly redundant and hence both fault-tolerant and tolerant of nodes disconnecting from the network. 

However, the disadvantages are that many different nodes may process the same 

search, and there is also significant overhead in replicated peer communications.An alternative p2p architectural model, which departs from a pure p2p architec-ture, is a semicentralized architecture where, within the network, one or more nodes 
act as servers to facilitate node communications. This reduces the amount of traffic 
between nodes. Figure 
17.15 illustrates how this semicentralized architectural model 

differs from the completely decentralized model shown in Figure 17.14.In a semicentralized architecture, the role of the server (sometimes called a super-peer) is to help establish contact between peers in the network or to coordinate the 

results of a computation. For example, if Figure 
17.15 represents an instant messaging 

system, then network nodes communicate with the server (indicated by dashed lines) 

to find out what other nodes are available. Once these nodes are discovered, direct 

communications can be established and the connection to the server becomes unnec
-
essary. Therefore, nodes n2, n3, n5, and n6 are in direct communication.In a computational p2p system, where a processor-intensive computation is distributed 
across a large number of nodes, it is normal for some nodes to be superpeers. Their role is 

to distribute work to other nodes and to collate and check the results of the computation.The peer-to-peer architectural model may be the best model for a distributed sys-tem in two circumstances:1. Where the system is computationally-intensive and it is possible to separate the 
processing required into a large number of independent computations. For exam-
ple, a peer-to-peer system that supports computational drug discovery distributes 

computations that look for potential cancer treatments by analyzing a huge num-
ber of molecules to see if they have the characteristics required to suppress the 

growth of cancers. Each molecule can be considered separately, so there is no 

need for the peers in the system to communicate.n4n2n3n6n7n10
n8n12
n11
n14n13
n9n1n5Figure 17.14   A decentralized  
p2p architecture 