˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜
However, we are still a long way from this ideal situation, and automated quality 
assessment is unlikely to become a reality in the near future.A software metric is a characteristic of a software system, system documentation, or development process that can be objectively measured. Examples of metrics 

include the size of a product in lines of code, the Fog index, which is a measure of 

the readability of narrative text, the number of reported faults in a delivered software 
product, and the number of person-days required to develop a system component.Software metrics may be either control metrics or predictor metrics. As the names 
imply, control metrics support process management, and predictor metrics help you 

predict characteristics of the software. Control metrics are usually associated with soft-ware processes. Examples of control or process metrics are the average effort and the 

time required to repair reported defects. Three kinds of process metrics can be used:1. The time taken for a particular process to be completed 
This can be the total 
time devoted to the process, calendar time, the time spent on the process by 

particular engineers, and so on.2. The resources required for a particular process Resources might include total 
effort in person-days, travel costs, or computer resources.3. The number of occurrences of a particular event Examples of events that might 

be monitored include the number of defects discovered during code inspection, 

the number of requirements changes requested, the number of bug reports in a 

delivered system, and the average number of lines of code modified in response 

to a requirements change.Predictor metrics (sometimes called product metrics) are associated with the soft-ware itself. Examples of predictor metrics are the cyclomatic complexity of a module, 

the average length of identifiers in a program, and the number of attributes and opera-
tions associated with object classes in a design. Both control and predictor metrics 

may influence management decision making as shown in Figure 24.9. Managers use 

process measurements to decide if process changes should be made and predictor met-
rics to decide if software changes are necessary and if the software is ready for release.Management
decisionsControl metric
measurements
Software
process
Predictor metric
measurements
Software
product
Figure 24.9 Predictor and control 
measurements