˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜3. Attack monitoring, detection, and recovery involves monitoring the system for unauthorized access, detecting and putting in place strategies for resisting 

attacks, and organizing backups of programs and data so that normal operation 
can be resumed after an external attack.Operational security is primarily a human and social issue. It focuses on ensuring that the people using the system do not behave in such a way that system security is 

compromised. For example, users may leave themselves logged on to a system while 
it is unattended. An attacker can then easily get access to the system. Users often 

behave in an insecure way to help them do their jobs more effectively, and they have 

good reason to behave in an insecure way. A challenge for operational security is to 
raise awareness of security issues and to find the right balance between security and 
system effectiveness.The term cybersecurity is now commonly used in discussions of system security. Cybersecurity is a very wide-ranging term that covers all aspects of the protection of 

citizens, businesses, and critical infrastructures from threats that arise from their use 
of computers and the Internet. Its scope includes all system levels from hardware 

and networks through application systems to mobile devices that may be used to 

access these systems. I discuss general cybersecurity issues, including infrastructure 

security, in Chapter 14, which covers resilience engineering. In this 
chapter, I focus on issues of application security engineeringŠsecurity 
requirements, design for security, and security testing. I don™t cover general security 

techniques that may be used, such as encryption, and access control mechanisms or 
attack vectors, such as viruses and worms. General textbooks on computer security 

(Pfleeger and Pfleeger 2007; Anderson 2008; Stallings and Brown 2012) discuss 

these techniques in detail.Security is a system attribute that reflects the ability of the system to protect itself 
from malicious internal or external attacks. These external attacks are possible 

because most computers and mobile devices are networked and are therefore 
 accessible by outsiders. Examples of attacks might be the installation of viruses and 
Trojan horses, unauthorized use of system services, or unauthorized modification of 

a system or its data.If you really want a system to be as secure as possible, it is best not to connect it to the Internet. Then, your security problems are limited to ensuring that authorized 
users do not abuse the system and to controlling the use of devices such as USB 

drives. In practice, however, networked access provides huge benefits for most 
 systems, so disconnecting from the Internet is not a viable security option.For some systems, security is the most important system dependability attribute. Military systems, systems for electronic commerce, and systems that involve the 

processing and interchange of confidential information must be designed so that 
