˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˜˜
2.
 Part 2, which covers dependable systems, has been revised and restructured. 
Rather than an activity-oriented approach where information on safety, security 
each topic has a chapter in its own right. This makes it easier to cover a single 
topic, such as security, as part of a more general course. I have added a com
-
pletely new chapter on resilience engineering which covers cybersecurity, 

3.
 In Part 3, I have added new chapters on systems engineering and systems of 

systems and have extensively revised the material on service-oriented systems 

engineering to reflect the increasing use of RESTful services. The chapter on 

aspect-oriented software engineering has been deleted from the print version but 
remains available as a web chapter.4. In Part 4, I have updated the material on configuration management to reflect 
the increasing use of distributed version control tools such as Git. The chapter 
on process improvement has been deleted from the print version but remains 

available as a web chapter.An important change in the supplementary material for the book is the addition of 
video recommendations in all chapters. I have made over 40 videos on a range of topics 

that are available on my YouTube channel and linked from the book™s web pages. In cases 

where I have not made videos, I have recommended YouTube videos that may be useful.
I explain the rationale behind the changes that I™ve made in this short video:http://software-engineering-book/videos/10th-edition-changes
The book is primarily aimed at university and college students taking introductory 
and advanced courses in software and systems engineering. I assume that readers 

understand the basics of programming and fundamental data structures.Software engineers in industry may find the book useful as general reading and to 
update their knowledge on topics such as software reuse, architectural design, 

dependability and security and systems engineering.I have designed the book so that it can be used in three different types of software 
engineering course:1.  General introductory courses in software engineering. The first part of the book has been designed to support a 1-semester course in introductory software engi-
neering. There are 9 chapters that cover fundamental topics in software  engineering. 
