˜˜˜˚˜˜˜˜
˜˜
3. Inclusion People contribute effectively when they feel that others listen to 
them and take account of their proposals. It is important to develop a working 
environment where all views, even those of the least experienced staff, are 

considered.4. Honesty As a manager, you should always be honest about what is going well and what is going badly in the team. You should also be honest about your level 
of technical knowledge and be willing to defer to staff with more knowledge 

when necessary. If you try to cover up ignorance or problems, you will eventu-
ally be found out and will lose the respect of the group.Practical people management has to be based on experiences so my aim in this section and the following section on teamwork is to raise awareness of the most 

important issues that project managers may have to deal with.˘˘As a project manager, you need to motivate the people who work with you so that 
they will contribute to the best of their abilities. In practice, motivation means organ
-
izing work and its environment to encourage people to work as effectively as possi-
ble. If people are not motivated, they will be less interested in the work they are 

doing. They will work slowly, be more likely to make mistakes, and will not contrib-
ute to the broader goals of the team or the organization.To provide this encouragement, you should understand a little about what moti-vates people. Maslow (Maslow 1954) suggests that people are motivated by satisfy-
ing their needs. These needs are arranged in a series of levels, as shown in Figure˜22.7. The lower levels of this hierarchy represent fundamental needs for food, sleep, and 

so on, and the need to feel secure in an environment. Social need is concerned with 
the need to feel part of a social grouping. Esteem need represents the need to feel 
respected by others, and self-realization need is concerned with personal develop
-
ment. People need to satisfy lower-level needs such as hunger before the more 

abstract, higher-level needs.People working in software development organizations are not usually hungry, 
thirsty, or physically threatened by their environment. Therefore, making sure that 
peoples™ social, esteem, and self-realization needs are satisfied is most important 

from a management point of view.1. To satisfy social needs, you need to give people time to meet their co-workers and provide places for them to meet. Software companies such as Google pro
-
vide social space in their offices for people to get together. This is relatively 

easy when all of the members of a development team work in the same place, 
but, increasingly, team members are not located in the same building or even the 
same town or state. They may work for different organizations or from home 

most of the time.