˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜design are developed concurrently. Constraints posed by existing systems may limit design choices, and these choices may be specified in the requirements. You may 

have to do some initial design to structure and organize the requirements engineering 
process. As the design process continues, you may discover problems with existing 

requirements and new requirements may emerge. Consequently, you can think of 

these linked processes as a spiral, as shown in Figure 19.11.The spiral reflects the reality that requirements affect design decisions and vice versa, and so it makes sense to interleave these processes. Starting in the center, each 
round of the spiral may add detail to the requirements and the design. As subsystems 
are identified in the architecture, decisions are made on the responsibilities of these 
subsystems for providing the system requirements. Some rounds of the spiral may 
focus on requirements, others on design. Sometimes new knowledge collected dur-
ing the requirements and design process means that the problem statement itself has 
to be changed.For almost all systems, many possible designs meet the requirements. These 
cover a range of solutions that combine hardware, software, and human operations. 

The solution that you choose for further development may be the most appropriate 
technical solution that meets the requirements. However, wider organizational and 
political considerations may influence the choice of solution. For example, a govern-
ment client may prefer to use national rather than foreign suppliers for its system, 
even if national products are technically inferior.These influences usually take effect in the review and assessment phase of the 
spiral model where designs and requirements may be accepted or rejected. The pro-
cess ends when a review decides that the requirements and high-level design are 

sufficiently detailed for subsystems to be specified and designed.System requirements and
design documentationReview andassessmentArchitecturaldesignStart
Requirementselicitation andanalysisDomain and problemunderstandingRequirements partitioning
Figure 19.11  Requirements and 
design spiral