˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
1. Activity diagrams, which show the activities involved in a process or in data 
processing.2. Use case diagrams, which show the interactions between a system and its 
 environment.3. Sequence diagrams, which show interactions between actors and the system and 
between system components.4. Class diagrams, 
which show the object classes in the system and the associa
-
tions between these classes.5. State diagrams, which show how the system reacts to internal and external events.At an early stage in the specification of a system, you should decide on the system 
boundaries, that is, on what is and is not part of the system being developed. This 
involves working with system stakeholders to decide what functionality should be 

included in the system and what processing and operations should be carried out in 

the system™s operational environment. You may decide that automated support for 
some business processes should be implemented in the software being developed but 
that other processes should be manual or supported by different systems. You should 
look at possible overlaps in functionality with existing systems and decide where 

new functionality should be implemented. These decisions should be made early in 
the process to limit the system costs and the time needed for understanding the sys-
tem requirements and design.In some cases, the boundary between a system and its environment is relatively clear. For example, where an automated system is replacing an existing manual or 
computerized system, the environment of the new system is usually the same as the 
existing system™s environment. In other cases, there is more flexibility, and you 

decide what constitutes the boundary between the system and its environment during 
the requirements engineering process.For example, say you are developing the specification for the Mentcare patient 
information system. This system is intended to manage information about patients 
attending mental health clinics and the treatments that have been prescribed. In devel-
oping the specification for this system, you have to decide whether the system should 

focus exclusively on collecting information about consultations (using other systems 

to collect personal information about patients) or whether it should also  collect per-sonal patient information. The advantage of relying on other systems for patient 

information is that you avoid duplicating data. The major disadvantage,  however, is 
that using other systems may make it slower to access information, and if these sys-
tems are unavailable, then it may be impossible to use the Mentcare  system.In some situations, the user base for a system is very diverse, and users have a wide range of different system requirements. You may decide not to define 
