˜˜˚˛˜˜˜ˇ
˜˜˜
4. Computer misuse You should not use your technical skills to misuse other peo-ple™s computers. Computer misuse ranges from relatively trivial (game playing 

on an employer™s machine) to extremely serious (dissemination of viruses or 

other malware).Professional societies and institutions have an important role to play in setting 
ethical standards. Organizations such as the ACM, the IEEE (Institute of Electrical 

and Electronic Engineers), and the British Computer Society publish a code of pro-
fessional conduct or code of ethics. Members of these organizations undertake to 

follow that code when they sign up for membership. These codes of conduct are 

generally concerned with fundamental ethical behavior.Professional associations, notably the ACM and the IEEE, have cooperated to 
produce a joint code of ethics and professional practice. This code exists in both a 
short form, shown in Figure 1.3, and a longer form (Gotterbarn, Miller, and Rogerson 
1999) that adds detail and substance to the shorter version. The rationale behind this 
code is summarized in the first two paragraphs of the longer form:Figure 1.3 The ACM/IEEE Code of EthicsSoftware Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional PracticeACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Software Engineering Ethics and Professional Practices
PREAMBLEThe short version of the code summarizes aspirations at a high level of the abstraction; the clauses that are 
included in the full version give examples and details of how these aspirations change the way we act as soft-

ware engineering professionals. Without the aspirations, the details can become legalistic and tedious; without 
the details, the aspirations can become high sounding but empty; together, the aspirations and the details form 
a cohesive code.Software engineers shall commit themselves to making the analysis, specification, design, development, test-
ing, and maintenance of software a beneficial and respected profession. In accordance with their commitment 
to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, software engineers shall adhere to the following Eight Principles:1. PUBLIC Š Software engineers shall act consistently with the public interest.2. CLIENT AND EMPLOYER Š Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest.3. PRODUCT Š Software engineers shall ensure that their products and related modifications meet the highest professional standards possible.4. JUDGMENT Š Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their professional judgment.5. MANAGEMENT Š Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and  

maintenance.6. PROFESSION Š Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of the profession consistent with the public interest.7. COLLEAGUES Š Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their  
colleagues.8. SELF Š Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding  
the practice of their profession and shall promote an ethical approach to the 
practice of the profession.(ACM/IEEE-CS Joint 

Task Force on Software 
Engineering Ethics and 
Professional Practices, 

short version. http://
www.acm.org/about/ se-code)(© 1999 by the ACM, Inc. and the IEEE, Inc.)