˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
UML. A use case can be taken as a simple description of what a user expects from a system in that interaction. I have discussed use cases for requirements elicitation in 
Chapter 4. As I said in Chapter 4, I find use case models to be more useful in the 
early stages of system design rather than in requirements engineering.Each use case represents a discrete task that involves external interaction with a system. In its simplest form, a use case is shown as an ellipse, with the actors 

involved in the use case represented as stick figures. Figure 5.3 shows a use case 

from the Mentcare system that represents the task of uploading data from the 

Mentcare system to a more general patient record system. This more general system 
maintains summary data about a patient rather than data about each consultation, 

which is recorded in the Mentcare system.Notice that there are two actors in this use caseŠthe operator who is transferring the data and the patient record system. The stick figure notation was originally devel-
oped to cover human interaction, but it is also used to represent other external sys-
tems and hardware. Formally, use case diagrams should use lines without arrows as 
arrows in the UML indicate the direction of flow of messages. Obviously, in a use 
case, messages pass in both directions. However, the arrows in Figure 5.3 are used 
informally to indicate that the medical receptionist initiates the transaction and data 

is transferred to the patient record system.Use case diagrams give a simple overview of an interaction, and you need to add more detail for complete interaction description. This detail can either be a simple 
textual description, a structured description in a table, or a sequence diagram. You 
choose the most appropriate format depending on the use case and the level of detail 
that you think is required in the model. I find a standard tabular format to be the most 
useful. Figure 5.4 shows a tabular description of the ﬁTransfer dataﬂ use case.Composite use case diagrams show a number of different use cases. Sometimes it is possible to include all possible interactions within a system in a single composite 

use case diagram. However, this may be impossible because of the number of use 

cases. In such cases, you may develop several diagrams, each of which shows related 

use cases. For example, Figure 5.5 shows all of the use cases in the Mentcare system Figure 5.4 Tabular description of the 
Transfer-data use caseMentcare system: Transfer dataActorsMedical receptionist, Patient records system (PRS)DescriptionA receptionist may transfer data from the Mentcare system to a 
general patient record database that is maintained by a health authority. The information transferred may either be updated 
personal information (address, phone number, etc.) or a 
summary of the patient™s diagnosis and treatment.DataPatient™s personal information, treatment summaryStimulusUser command issued by medical receptionistResponseConfirmation that PRS has been updatedCommentsThe receptionist must have appropriate security permissions to 
access the patient information and the PRS.