You should use three main parameters when computing the costs of a software 
development project:˜ effort costs (the costs of paying software engineers and managers);˜ hardware and software costs, including hardware maintenance and software 
 support; and
˜ travel and training costs.For most projects, the biggest cost is the effort cost. You have to estimate the total effort (in person-months) that is likely to be required to complete the work of a pro-ject. Obviously, you have limited information to make such an estimate. You there
-
fore make the best possible estimate and then add contingency (extra time and effort) 
in case your initial estimate is optimistic.For commercial systems, you normally use commodity hardware, which is rela-tively cheap. However, software costs can be significant if you have to license mid-
dleware and platform software. Extensive travel may be needed when a project is 

developed at different sites. While travel costs themselves are usually a small frac-
tion of the effort costs, the time spent traveling is often wasted and adds significantly 
to the effort costs of the project. You can use electronic meeting systems and other 
collaborative software to reduce travel and so have more time available for produc-
tive work.Once a contract to develop a system has been awarded, the outline project 
plan for the project has to be refined to create a project startup plan. At this stage, 

you should know more about the requirements for this system. Your aim should 

be to create a project plan with enough detail to help make decisions about pro-ject staffing and budgeting. You use this plan as a basis for allocating resources 

to the project from within the organization and to help decide if you need to hire 

new staff.The plan should also define project monitoring mechanisms. You must keep track of the progress of the project and compare actual and planned progress and costs. 

Although most companies have formal procedures for monitoring, a good manager 
should be able to form a clear picture of what is going on through informal discus
-
sions with project staff. Informal monitoring can predict potential project problems 
by revealing difficulties as they occur. For example, daily discussions with project 
Overhead costsWhen you estimate the costs of effort on a software project, you don™t simply multiply the salaries of the people 
involved by the time spent on the project. You have to take into account all of the organizational overheads 
(office space, administration, etc.) that must be covered by the income from a project. You calculate the costs 
by computing these overheads and adding a proportion to the costs of each engineer working on a project.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/overhead-costs/˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜˜
