˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜
On the other hand, the process changes might lead to many new, happy customers who wish to participate in the product development process. They therefore generate 
more change requests. Changes to the process of handling change requests may con
-
tribute to this increase. If the company is more responsive to customers, they may 
generate more change requests because they know that these requests will be taken 
seriously. They believe that their suggestions will probably be incorporated in later 
versions of the software. Alternatively, the number of change requests might have 
increased because the beta-test sites were not typical of most usage of the program.To analyze the change request data, you do not simply need to know the number of change requests. You need to know who made the request, how the software is 
used, and why the request was made. You also need information about external fac-
tors such as modifications to the change request procedure or market changes that 
might have an effect. With this information, you are in a better position to find out if 
the process changes have been effective in increasing product quality.This illustrates the difficulties of understanding the effects of changes. The ﬁsci-entificﬂ approach to this problem is to reduce the number of factors that might affect 
the measurements made. However, processes and products that are being measured 
are not insulated from their environment. The business environment is constantly 

changing, and it is impossible to avoid changes to work practice just because they 
may make comparisons of data invalid. As such, quantitative data about human 

activities cannot always be taken at face value. The reasons a measured value 

changes are often ambiguous. These reasons must be investigated in detail before 

any conclusions can be drawn from any measurements.˘˘Over the past few years, the notion of ﬁbig data analysisﬂ has emerged as a means of 

discovering insights by automatically mining and analyzing very large volumes of 
automatically collected data. It is possible to discover relationships between data items 

that could not be found by manual data analysis and modeling. Software analytics is 

the application of such techniques to data about software and software processes.Two factors have made software analytics possible:1. The automated collection of user data by software product companies when their 

product is used. If the software fails, information about the failure and the state of 

the system can be sent over the Internet from the user™s computer to servers run by 

the product developer. As a result, large volumes of data about individual prod-
ucts such as Internet Explorer or Photoshop have become available for analysis.2.
 The use of open-source software available on platforms such as Sourceforge 

and GitHub and open-source repositories of software engineering data (Menzies 

and Zimmermann 2013). The source code of open-source software is available 
for automated analysis and can sometimes be linked with data in the open-

source repository.