˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜The widespread adoption of the Internet in the 1990s introduced a new challenge for 
software engineersŠdesigning and implementing systems that were secure. As more 

and more systems were connected to the Internet, a variety of different external attacks 

were devised to threaten these systems. The problems of producing  dependable systems 
were hugely increased. Systems engineers had to consider threats from  malicious and 
technically skilled attackers as well as problems resulting from  accidental mistakes in 
the development process.It is now essential to design systems to withstand external attacks and to recover from such attacks. Without security precautions, attackers will inevitably  compromise a networked system. They may misuse the system hardware, steal confidential data, 
or disrupt the services offered by the system.You have to take three security dimensions into account in secure systems  engineering:1. Confidentiality Information in a system may be disclosed or made accessible to people or programs that are not authorized to have access to that information. 

For example, the theft of credit card data from an e-commerce system is a 
 confidentiality problem.
2. Integrity Information in a system may be damaged or corrupted, making it 
 unusual or unreliable. For example, a worm that deletes data in a system is an 

integrity problem.3. Availability Access to a system or its data that is normally available may not be possible. A denial-of-service attack that overloads a server is an example of a 
situation where the system availability is compromised.These dimensions are closely related. If an attack makes the system unavailable, then you will not be able to update information that changes with time. This means 
that the integrity of the system may be compromised. If an attack succeeds and the 
integrity of the system is compromised, then it may have to be taken down to repair 
the problem. Therefore, the availability of the system is reduced.From an organizational perspective, security has to be considered at three levels:1. Infrastructure security, which is concerned with maintaining the security of all 

systems and networks that provide an infrastructure and a set of shared services 
to the organization.2. Application security, which is concerned with the security of individual 
 application systems or related groups of systems.3. Operational security, which is concerned with the secure operation and use of 
the organization™s systems.Figure 13.
1 is a diagram of an application system stack that shows how an 
 application system relies on an infrastructure of other systems in its operation. The 
lower levels of the infrastructure are hardware, but the software infrastructure for 

application systems may include: