˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜uncertified companies. The ISO 9001 standard focuses on ensuring that the organi-zation has quality management procedures in place and that it follows these proce-
dures. There is no guarantee that ISO 9001 certified companies use the best software 
development practices or that their processes lead to high-quality software.The ISO 9001 certification is inadequate, in my view, because it defines quality to be the conformance to standards. It takes no account of quality as experienced by 
users of the software. For example, a company could define test coverage standards 
specifying that all methods in objects must be called at least once. Unfortunately, 

this standard can be met by incomplete software testing that does not include tests 
with different method parameters. As long as the defined testing procedures are fol-
lowed and test records are maintained, the company could be ISO 9001 certified.
Reviews and inspections are quality assurance activities that check the quality of 

project deliverables. This involves checking the software, its documentation, and 

records of the process to discover errors and omissions as well as standards viola-
tions. As I explained in Chapter 8, reviews and inspections are used alongside pro-gram testing as part of the general process of software verification and validation.During a review, several people examine the software and its associated docu-mentation, looking for potential problems and nonconformance with standards. The 
review team makes informed judgments about the level of quality of the software or 

project documents. Project managers may then use these assessments to make plan-
ning decisions and allocate resources to the development process.Quality reviews are based on documents that have been produced during the soft-ware development process. As well as software specifications, designs, code, pro
-
cess models, test plans, configuration management procedures, process standards, 
Project 1
quality planProject 2
quality planProject 3
quality planProject quality
management
Organization
quality manual
ISO 9001
quality modelsOrganization
quality process
is used to developinstantiated as
instantiated as
documentsSupports
Figure 24.6 ISO 9001 and quality 
management