˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜I don™t like the term Concept of Operations partly because of its military connota-tions and partly because I think that a conceptual design document is not just about system operation. It should also present the system engineer™s understanding of why 
the system is being developed, an explanation of why the design proposals are appro-
priate, and, sometimes, an initial organization for the system. As Fairley says, ﬁIt 

should be organized to tell a story,ﬂ that is, written so that people without a technical 
background can understand the proposals that are being made.Figure 19.
7 shows activities that may be part of the conceptual design process. 
Conceptual design should always be a team process that involves people from differ-
ent backgrounds. I was part of the conceptual design team for the digital learning 

environment, introduced in Chapter 1. For the digital learning environment, the 

design team included teachers, education researchers, software engineers, system 

administrators, and system managers.Concept formulation is the first stage of the process where you try to refine an 
initial statement of needs and work out what type of system would be best to meet 

the needs of system stakeholders. Initially, we were tasked with proposing an 

intranet for information sharing across schools that was easier to use than the cur
-
rent system. However, after discussions with teachers, we discovered that this was 

not really what was required. The existing system was awkward to use, but people 

had found workarounds. What was really required was a flexible digital learning 

environment that could be adapted by adding subject and age-specific tools and 

content that are freely available on the Internet.We discovered this because the concept formulation activity overlapped with the activity of problem understanding. To understand a problem, you need to discuss 

with users and other stakeholders how they do their work. You need to find out what 
is important to them, what are the barriers that stop them from doing what they want 
to do, and their ideas of what changes are required. You need to be open-minded (it 
is their problem, not yours) and to be prepared to change your ideas when the reality 
does not match your initial vision.Concept formulationProblem understandingSystem proposal development
Feasibility study
System structure development
System vision document
Figure 19.7 Conceptual design activities