˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜˜˜˜Figure 7.
9 shows two interfaces that may be defined for the weather station. The left-hand interface is a reporting interface that defines the operation names that are used to 
generate weather and status reports. These map directly to operations in the WeatherStation 

object. The remote control interface provides four operations, which map onto a single 

method in the WeatherStation object. In this case, the individual operations are encoded 

in the command string associated with the remoteControl method, shown in Figure 7.6.Design patterns were derived from ideas put forward by Christopher Alexander 
(Alexander 1979), who suggested that there were certain common patterns of building 

design that were inherently pleasing and effective. The pattern is a description of the 

problem and the essence of its solution, so that the solution may be reused in different 

settings. The pattern is not a detailed specification. Rather, you can think of it as a descrip-
tion of accumulated wisdom and experience, a well-tried solution to a common problem.A quote from the Hillside Group website (hillside.net/patterns/), which is dedi-cated to maintaining information about patterns, encapsulates their role in reuse:Patterns and Pattern Languages are ways to describe best practices, good 

designs, and capture experience in a way that it is possible for others to reuse 

this experienceƒ.Patterns have made a huge impact on object-oriented software design. As well as being tested solutions to common problems, they have become a vocabulary for talk-
ing about a design. You can therefore explain your design by describing the patterns 
that you have used. This is particularly true for the best known design patterns that 
were originally described by the ﬁGang of Fourﬂ in their patterns book, published in 

1995 (Gamma et al. 1995). Other important pattern descriptions are those published 
in a series of books by authors from Siemens, a large European technology company 
(Buschmann et al. 1996; Schmidt et al. 2000; Kircher and Jain 2004; Buschmann, 
Henney, and Schmidt 2007a, 2007b).Patterns are a way of reusing the knowledge and experience of other designers. 
Design patterns are usually associated with object-oriented design. Published patterns 

often rely on object characteristics such as inheritance and polymorphism to provide 

generality. However, the general principle of encapsulating experience in a pattern is 
«interface»
Reporting
weatherReport (WS-Ident): Wrepo
rt
statusReport (WS-Ident): Sreport
«interface»
Remote Control
startInstrument(instrument): iStatus

stopInstrument (instrument): iStatus
collectData (instrument): iStatus
provideData (instrument ): stringFigure 7.9 Weather station interfacesƒThe HIllside Group: hillside.net/patterns