8. Security requirements definition, 
where knowledge of the exposure, threats, and 
control assessments is used to derive system security requirements. These 

requirements may apply to the system infrastructure or the application system.The Mentcare patient management system is a security-critical system. Figures 13.6 and 13.7 are fragments of a report that documents the risk analysis of that soft-
ware system. Figure 13.6 is an asset analysis that describes the assets in the system 
and their value. Figure 13.7 shows some of the threats that a system may face.Once a preliminary risk assessment has been completed, then requirements can be 
proposed that aim to avoid, detect, and mitigate risks to the system. However, creating 

these requirements is not a formulaic or automated process. It requires inputs from 

both engineers and domain experts to suggest requirements based on their understand-
ing of the risk analysis and the functional requirements of the software system. Some 

examples of the Mentcare system security requirements and associated risks are:1. Patient information shall be downloaded, at the start of a clinic session, from the database to a secure area on the system client. Risk: Damage from denial-of-service attack. Maintaining local copies means 

that access is still possible.2. All patient information on the system client shall be encrypted. Risk: External access to patient records. If data is encrypted, then attacker must have access to the encryption key to discover patient information.3. Patient information shall be uploaded to the database when a clinic session is 
over and deleted from the client computer. Risk: External access to patience records through stolen laptop.4.
 A log of all changes made to the system database and the initiator of these 

changes shall be maintained on a separate computer from the database server. Risk: Insider or external attacks that corrupt current data. A log should allow 
up-to-date records to be re-created from a backup.Figure 13.6 Asset 
analysis in a 

preliminary risk 

assessment report for 

the Mentcare systemAssetValueExposureThe information 
systemHigh. Required to support 
all clinical consultations. 
Potentially safety critical.High. Financial loss as clinics may have to 
be canceled. Costs of restoring system. 
Possible patient harm if treatment cannot 
be prescribed.The patient databaseHigh. Required to support 
all clinical consultations. 
Potentially safety critical.High. Financial loss as clinics may have to 
be canceled. Costs of restoring system. 
Possible patient harm if treatment cannot 
be prescribed.An individual patient 
recordNormally low, although 
may be high for specific 
high-profile patientsLow direct losses but possible loss of 
reputation.˜˜˚˛˚˜˜˜
˜˜
