they meet the essential requirements and if they are generally suitable for 
use˜in the system.3. Requirements refinement During this stage, the requirements are refined using 

information about the reusable components and applications that have been 

discovered. The requirements are modified to reflect the available compo-
nents, and the system specification is re-defined. Where modifications are 

impossible, the component analysis activity may be reentered to search for 

alternative solutions.4. Application system configuration If an off-the-shelf application system that 

meets the requirements is available, it may then be configured for use to create 
the new system.5. Component adaptation and integration If there is no off-the-shelf system, indi-
vidual reusable components may be modified and new components developed. 
These are then integrated to create the system.Reuse-oriented software engineering, based around configuration and integra-tion, has the obvious advantage of reducing the amount of software to be developed 
and so reducing cost and risks. It usually also leads to faster delivery of the software. 
However, requirements compromises are inevitable, and this may lead to a system Software development toolsSoftware development tools are programs that are used to support software engineering process activities. 
These tools include requirements management tools, design editors, refactoring support tools, compilers, 
debuggers, bug trackers, and system building tools.Software tools provide process support by automating some process activities and by providing information about the software that is being developed. For example:˜ The development of graphical system models as part of the requirements specification or the software 
design˜ The generation of code from these graphical models˜ The generation of user interfaces from a graphical interface description that is created interactively by the user˜ Program debugging through the provision of information about an executing program˜ The automated translation of programs written using an old version of a programming language to a more 
recent versionTools may be combined within a framework called an Interactive Development Environment or IDE. This  provides a common set of facilities that tools can use so that it is easier for tools to communicate and operate 
in an integrated way.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/software-tools/˜˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜˜˜
