˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜during the project, you should regularly revise the plan to reflect requirements, 
schedule, and risk changes. Changing business goals also leads to changes in project 

plans. As business goals change, this could affect all projects, which may then have 
to be re-planned.At the beginning of a planning process, you should assess the constraints affect
-ing the project. These constraints are the required delivery date, staff available, over-
all budget, available tools, and so on. In conjunction with this assessment, you 

should also identify the project milestones and deliverables. Milestones are points in 
the schedule against which you can assess progress, for example, the handover of the 
system for testing. Deliverables are work products that are delivered to the customer, 
for example, a requirements document for the system.The process then enters a loop that terminates when the project is complete. You 
draw up an estimated schedule for the project, and the activities defined in the schedule 

are initiated or are approved to continue. After some time (usually about two to three 

weeks), you should review progress and note discrepancies from the planned schedule. 

Because initial estimates of project parameters are inevitably approximate, minor slip-pages are normal and you will have to make modifications to the original plan.You should make realistic rather than optimistic assumptions when you are defin
-ing a project plan. Problems of some description always arise during a project, and 
these lead to project delays. Your initial assumptions and scheduling should there-
fore be pessimistic and take unexpected problems into account. You should include 
contingency in your plan so that if things go wrong, then your delivery schedule is 
not seriously disrupted.If there are serious problems with the development work that are likely to lead to significant delays, you need to initiate risk mitigation actions to reduce the risks of 
project failure. In conjunction with these actions, you also have to re-plan the pro-
ject. This may involve renegotiating the project constraints and deliverables with the 
customer. A new schedule of when work should be completed also has to be estab
-
lished and agreed to with the customer.Define projectscheduleIdentifyrisksIdentifyconstraintsDefinemilestonesanddeliverables«system»Project planner
Do the workMonitor progress
against plan[ no problems ][minor problems and slippages][projectfinished][unfinished][seriousproblems]Initiate riskmitigation actions
ReplanprojectFigure 23.3 The project planning process