˜˜˚˙˜˜˜
˜˜
systems. A system that follows the ClientŒServer pattern is organized as a set of ser
-vices and associated servers, and clients that access and use the services. The major 

components of this model are:1.
 A set of servers that offer services to other components. Examples of servers 
include print servers that offer printing services, file servers that offer file man-
agement services, and a compile server that offers programming language com-
pilation services. Servers are software components, and several servers may run 
on the same computer.2. A set of clients that call on the services offered by servers. There will normally 
be several instances of a client program executing concurrently on different 

computers. 3.
 A network that allows the clients to access these services. ClientŒserver sys-
tems are usually implemented as distributed systems, connected using Internet 

protocols.ClientŒserver architectures are usually thought of as distributed systems architec
-tures, but the logical model of independent services running on separate servers can 
be implemented on a single computer. Again, an important benefit is separation and 
independence. Services and servers can be changed without affecting other parts of 
the system.Clients may have to know the names of the available servers and the services 
they provide. However, servers do not need to know the identity of clients or how 

many clients are accessing their services. Clients access the services provided by a 

server through remote procedure calls using a requestŒreply protocol (such as http), 

where a client makes a request to a server and waits until it receives a reply from 

that server.Figure 6.12 The ClientŒServer patternNameClientŒserverDescriptionIn a clientŒserver architecture, the system is presented as a set of services, with each service 
delivered by a separate server. Clients are users of these services and access servers to make 
use of them.ExampleFigure 6.
13 is an example of a film and video/DVD library organized as a clientŒserver system.When usedUsed when data in a shared database has to be accessed from a range of locations. Because 
servers can be replicated, may also be used when the load on a system is variable.AdvantagesThe principal advantage of this model is that servers can be distributed across a network. 
General functionality (e.g., a printing service) can be available to all clients and does not 
need to be implemented by all services.DisadvantagesEach service is a single point of failure and so is susceptible to denial-of-service attacks 

or˜server failure. Performance may be unpredictable because it depends on the network 

as˜well as the system. Management problems may arise if servers are owned by 

different˜organizations.