˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜ˇ
˜provider should be used or what specific services should be accessed. As the car moves 
around, the in-car software uses the service discovery service to find the most useful local 

information service. Because of the use of a translation service, it can move across bor
-ders and make local information available to people who don™t speak the local language.
I think that the service-oriented approach to software engineering is as important 
a development as object-oriented software engineering. Service-oriented systems are 

essential to the cloud and mobile systems. Newcomer and Lomow (Newcomer and 

Lomow 2005), in their book on SOA, summarize the potential of service-oriented 

approaches, which is now being realized:
Driven by the convergence of key technologies and the universal adoption of 

Web services, the service-oriented enterprise promises to significantly improve 

corporate agility, speed time-to-market for new products and services, reduce 

IT costs and improve operational efficiency.
ƒBuilding applications based on services allows companies and other organiza
-tions to cooperate and make use of each other™s business functions. Thus, systems 

that involve extensive information exchange across company boundaries, such as 

supply chain systems where one company orders goods from another, can easily be 

automated. Service-based applications may be constructed by linking services from 
various providers using either a standard programming language or a specialized 

workflow language, as discussed in Section 18.4.
Initial work on service provision and implementation was heavily influenced by 
the failure of the software industry to agree on component standards. It was therefore 

standards-driven, with all of the main industrial companies involved in standards 

development. This led to a whole range of standards (WS* standards) and the notion 

of service-oriented architectures. These were proposed as architectures for service-

based systems, with all service communication being standards-based. However, the 

standards proposed were complex and had a significant execution overhead. This 

problem has led many companies to adopt an alternative architectural approach, 

based on so-called RESTful services. A RESTful approach is a simpler approach 

than a service-oriented architecture, but it is less suited to services that offer complex 

functionality. I discuss both of these architectural approaches in this chapter.

˝
Service-oriented architecture (SOA) is an architectural style based on the idea that execut
-
able services can be included in applications. Services have well-defined, published inter
-faces, and applications can choose whether or not these are appropriate. An important 

idea underlying SOA is that the same service may be available from different providers 

and that applications could make a runtime decision of which service provider to use.
ƒNewcomer, E. and Lomow, G. (2005). Understanding SOA with Web Services. Boston: Addison-Wesley.
