˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜
˜˜
This is an example of an approach to software pricing called ﬁpricing to win.ﬂ 
Pricing to win means that a company has some idea of the price that the customer expects to pay and makes a bid for the contract based on the customer™s expected 
price. This may seem unethical and unbusinesslike, but it does have advantages for 
both the customer and the system provider.A project cost is agreed on the basis of an outline proposal. Negotiations then take 
place between client and customer to establish the detailed project specification. 

This specification is constrained by the agreed cost. The buyer and seller must agree 
on what is acceptable system functionality. The fixed factor in many projects is not 
the project requirements but the cost. The requirements may be changed so that the 

project costs remain within budget.For example, say a company (OilSoft) is bidding for a contract to develop a fuel delivery system for an oil company that schedules deliveries of fuel to its service 

stations. There is no detailed requirements document for this system, so OilSoft esti-
mates that a price of $900,000 is likely to be competitive and within the oil compa-
ny™s budget. After being granted the contract, OilSoft then negotiates the detailed 

requirements of the system so that basic functionality is delivered. It then estimates 
the additional costs for other requirements.This approach has advantages for both the software developer and the cus-tomer. The requirements are negotiated to avoid requirements that are difficult 

to implement and potentially very expensive. Flexible requirements make it eas
-
ier to reuse software. The oil company has awarded the contract to a known 

company that it can trust. Furthermore, it may be possible to spread the cost of 
FactorDescriptionContractual termsA customer may be willing to allow the developer to retain ownership 
of the source code and reuse it in other projects. The price charged 
might then be reduced to reflect the value of the source code to the 
developer.Cost estimate uncertaintyIf an organization is unsure of its cost estimate, it may increase its price 
by a contingency over and above its normal profit.Financial healthCompanies with financial problems may lower their price to gain a 
contract. It is better to make a smaller-than-normal profit or break even 
than to go out of business. Cash flow is more important than profit in 
difficult economic times.Market opportunityA development organization may quote a low price because it wishes to 
move into a new segment of the software market. Accepting a low 
profit on one project may give the organization the opportunity to make 
a greater profit later. The experience gained may also help it develop 
new products.Requirements volatilityIf the requirements are likely to change, an organization may lower its 
price to win a contract. After the contract is awarded, high prices can be 
charged for changes to the requirements.Figure 23.1 Factors affecting software 
pricing