˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜2. Review and modify standards regularly to reflect changing technologies 
Standards are expensive to develop, and they tend to be enshrined in a company 
standards handbook. Because of the costs and discussion required, there is often 
a reluctance to change them. A standards handbook is essential, but it should 

evolve to reflect changing circumstances and technology.3. Make sure that tool support is available to support standards-based development 

Developers often find standards to be a bugbear when conformance to them 

involves tedious manual work that could be done by a software tool. If tool support 

is available, standards can be followed without much extra effort. For example, 

program layout standards can be defined and implemented by a  syntax-directed program editing system.Different types of software need different development processes, so standards 
have to be adaptable. There is no point in prescribing a particular way of working if 
it is inappropriate for a project or project team. Each project manager should have 
the authority to modify process standards according to individual circumstances. 

However, when changes are made, it is important to ensure that these changes do not 
lead to a loss of product quality.The project manager and the quality manager can avoid the problems of inap
-propriate standards by careful quality planning early in the project. They should 

decide which of the organizational standards should be used without change, which 

should be modified, and which should be ignored. New standards may have to be 

created in response to customer or project requirements. For example, standards 

for formal specifications may be required if these standards have not been used in 

previous projects.˘˘The international set of standards used in the development of quality manage
-ment systems in all industries is called ISO 9000. ISO 9000 standards can be 

applied to a range of organizations from manufacturing through to service indus
-
tries. ISO 9001, the most general of these standards, applies to organizations that 

design, develop, and maintain products, including software. The ISO 9001 

standard was originally developed in 1987. I explain the 2008 version of the 

standard here, but the standard may change in 2015 when a new version is sched-
uled for release.The ISO 9001 standard is not a standard for software development but rather is a framework for developing software standards. It sets out general quality principles, 
describes quality processes in general, and lays out the organizational standards and 
procedures that should be defined. These should be documented in an organizational 
quality manual.A major revision of the ISO 9001 standard in 2000 reoriented the standard around nine core processes (Figure 24.5). If an organization is to be ISO 9001 conformant, 
it must document how its processes relate to these core processes. It must also define 
and maintain records demonstrating that the defined organizational processes have 