˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜Hierarchical groups can work well when a well-understood problem can be easily 
broken down into software components that can be developed in different parts of the 
hierarchy. This grouping allows for rapid decision making, which is why  military organ-izations follow this model. However, it rarely works well for complex software engineer
-
ing. In software development, effective team communications at all levels is essential:1. Changes to the software often require changes to several parts of the system, and this requires discussion and negotiation at all levels in the hierarchy.2.
 Software technologies change so fast that more junior staff may know more 

about new technologies than experienced staff. Top-down communications may 
mean that the project manager does not find out about the opportunities of using 

these new technologies. More junior staff may become frustrated because of 

what they see as old-fashioned technologies being used for development.A major challenge facing project managers is the difference in technical ability 
between group members. The best programmers may be up to 25 times more  productive 
than the worst programmers. It makes sense to use these ﬁsuper-
 programmersﬂ in the 
most effective way and to provide them with as much support as possible.At the same time, focusing on the super-programmers can be demotivating for other 
group members who are resentful that they are not given responsibility. They may be 

concerned that this will affect their career development. Furthermore, if a ﬁsuper- programmerﬂ leaves the company, the impact on a project can be huge. Therefore, 

adopting a group model that is based on individual experts can pose  significant risks.˘˘It is absolutely essential that group members communicate effectively and efficiently 
with each other and with other project stakeholders. Group members must exchange 
information on the status of their work, the design decisions that have been made, 
and changes to previous design decisions. They have to resolve problems that arise 
with other stakeholders and inform these stakeholders of changes to the system, the 
group, and delivery plans. Good communication also helps strengthen group cohe-
siveness. Group members come to understand the motivations, strengths, and weak-
nesses of other people in the group.The effectiveness and efficiency of communications are influenced by:1. Group size As a group gets bigger, it gets harder for members to communicate  effectively. The number of one-way communication links is n * (n ˚ 1), where n 
is the group size, so, with a group of eight members, there are 56 possible 
 communication pathways. This means that it is quite possible that some people 
will rarely communicate with each other. Status differences between group 

members mean that communications are often one-way. Managers and experi-
enced engineers tend to dominate communications with less experienced staff, 

who may be reluctant to start a conversation or make critical remarks.