˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜ˇ
˜understanding and analyzing the organization™s business processes to decide which 
reusable services could be implemented to support these processes.Erl (Erl 2005) suggests that there are three fundamental types of service:1. Utility services. These services implement some general functionality that may 
be used by different business processes. An example of a utility service is a cur
-rency conversion service that can be accessed to compute the conversion of one 

currency (e.g., dollars) to another (e.g., euros).
2. Business services. These services are associated with a specific business func
-
tion. An example of a business function in a university would be the registration 

of students for a course.3. Coordination or process services. These services support a more general busi
-
ness process that usually involves different actors and activities. An example of 

a coordination service in a company is an ordering service that allows orders to 

be placed with suppliers, goods accepted, and payments made.Erl also suggests that services can be thought of as task-oriented or entity- oriented. Task-oriented services are associated with some activity, whereas entity-

oriented services are associated with a system resource. The resource is a business 

entity such as a job application form. Figure 18.9 shows examples of services that 

are task-oriented or entity-oriented. Utility or business services may be entity-

oriented or task-oriented. Coordination services are always task-oriented.
Your goal in service candidate identification should be to identify services that 
are logically coherent, independent, and reusable. Erl™s classification is helpful in 

this respect, as it suggests how to discover reusable services by looking at business 

entities as resources and business activities. However, identifying service candidates 

is sometimes difficult because you have to envisage how the services could be used. 

You have to think of possible candidates and then ask a series of questions about 

them to see if they are likely to be useful services. Possible questions that you might 

ask to identify potentially reusable services are:1.
 For an entity-oriented service, is the service associated with a single logical 
resource that is used in different business processes? What operations are nor
-mally performed on that entity that must be supported? Do these fit with the 

RESTful service operations PUT, CREATE, POST, and DELETE?
2. For a task-oriented service, is the task one that is carried out by different people 

in the organization? Will they be willing to accept the inevitable standardization 
Figure 18.9 Service classificationUtilityBusinessCoordinationTaskCurrency converter

Employee locatorValidate claim form

Check credit ratingProcess expense claim
Pay external supplier
EntityDocument translator
Web form to XML converter
Expenses form
Student application form