˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜The first two requirements are relatedŠpatient information is downloaded to a 
local machine, so that consultations may continue if the patient database server is 
attacked or becomes unavailable. However, this information must be deleted so 

that later users of the client computer cannot access the information. The fourth 

requirement is a recovery and auditing requirement. It means that changes can be 

recovered by replaying the change log and that it is possible to discover who has 

made the changes. This accountability discourages misuse of the system by 

authorized staff.The derivation of security requirements from a risk analysis is a creative process 

involving engineers and domain experts. One approach that has been developed to 
support this process for users of the UML is the idea of misuse cases (Sindre and 

Opdahl 2005). Misuse cases are scenarios that represent malicious interactions with 
a system. You can use these scenarios to discuss and identify possible threats and, 

therefore also determine the system™s security requirements. They can be used 

alongside use cases when deriving the system requirements (Chapters 4 and 5).Misuse cases are associated with use case instances and represent threats or 
attacks associated with these use cases. They may be included in a use case diagram 
but should also have a more complete and detailed textual description. In Figure 

13.8, I have taken the use cases for a medical receptionist using the Mentcare system 
and have added misuse cases. These are normally represented as black ellipses.As with use cases, misuse cases can be described in several ways. I think that it is 
most helpful to describe them as a supplement to the original use case description. I 

also think it is best to have a flexible format for misuse cases as different types of attack 

have to be described in different ways. Figure 13.9 shows the original description of 

the Transfer Data use case (Figure 5.4), with the addition of a misuse case description.The problem with misuse cases mirrors the general problem of use cases, which is that interactions between end-users and a system do not capture all of the system Figure 13.7 Threat  and control analysis  
in a preliminary risk 
assessment reportThreatProbabilityControl
FeasibilityAn unauthorized user 

gains access as system 

manager and makes 

system unavailableLowOnly allow system 
management from 
specific locations that 
are physically secure.Low cost of implementation, but care 

must be taken with key distribution 

and to ensure that keys are available 

in the event of an emergency.An unauthorized user 

gains access as system 

user to confidential 

informationHighRequire all users to 

authenticate 

themselves using a 

biometric mechanism.Technically feasible but high- cost 
solution. Possible user resistance.Log all changes to 

patient information to 

track system usage.Simple and transparent to 
implement and also supports 
recovery.