˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜and the presentation to the client. The server is essentially a transaction server that manages all database transactions. Data handling is straightforward as there is no 

need to manage the interaction between the client and the application processing 

system. The fat-client model requires system management to deploy and maintain 
the software on the client computer.An example of a situation in which a fat-client architecture is used is in a bank 
ATM system, which delivers cash and other banking services to users. The ATM is the 

client computer, and the server is, typically, a mainframe running the customer account 

database. A mainframe computer is a powerful machine that is designed for transac-
tion processing. It can therefore handle the large volume of transactions generated by 

ATMs, other teller systems, and online banking. The software in the teller machine 

carries out a lot of the customer-related processing associated with a transaction. Figure 17.9 shows a simplified version of the ATM system organization. The ATMs 
do not connect directly to the customer database, but rather to a teleprocessing (TP) mon-
itor. A TP monitor is a middleware system that organizes communications with remote 

clients and serializes client transactions for processing by the database. This ensures that 

transactions are independent and do not interfere with one other. Using serial transactions 

means that the system can recover from faults without corrupting the system data.While a fat-client model distributes processing more effectively than a thin-client model, system management is more complex if a special-purpose client, rather than 
a browser, is used. Application functionality is spread across many computers. When 
the application software has to be changed, this involves software reinstallation on 
every client computer. This can be a major cost if there are hundreds of clients in the 
system. Auto-update of the client software can reduce these costs but introduces its 
own problems if the client functionality is changed. The new functionality may mean 
that businesses have to change the ways they use the system.The extensive use of mobile devices means that it is important to mimimize net
-work traffic wherever possible. These devices now include powerful computers that 

can carry out local processing. As a consequence, the distinction between thin-client 

and fat-client architectures has become blurred. Apps can have inbuilt functionality 

that carries out local processing, and web pages may include Javascript components 
Account serverCustomeraccountdatabaseTele-
processingmonitorATMATMATMATMFigure 17.9 A fat-client architecture for an 
ATM system 