˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜daysﬂ are also good ways of promoting cohesion: People relax together while they help each other learn about new technologies.Whether or not a group is effective depends, to some extent, on the nature of the project and the organization doing the work. If an organization is in a state of turmoil 
with constant reorganizations and job insecurity, it is difficult for team members to 
focus on software development. Similarly, if a project keeps changing and is in dan-
ger of cancellation, people lose interest in it.Given a stable organizational and project environment, the three factors that have 
the biggest effect on team working are:1. The people in the group 
You need a mix of people in a project group as software 
development involves diverse activities such as negotiating with clients, pro-gramming, testing, and documentation.2. The way the group is organized A group should be organized so that individuals 
can contribute to the best of their abilities and tasks can be completed as 

expected.3. Technical and managerial communications Good communication between 

group members, and between the software engineering team and other project 
stakeholders, is essential.As with all management issues, getting the right team cannot guarantee project success. Too many other things can go wrong, including changes to the business and 
the business environment. However, if you don™t pay attention to group composi
-tion, organization, and communications, you increase the likelihood that your pro-
ject will run into difficulties.Figure 22.9 Group cohesionCase study: Team spiritAlice, an experienced project manager, understands the importance of creating a cohe-sive group. As her company is developing a new product, she takes the opportunity to 

involve all group members in the product specification and design by getting them to 

discuss possible technology with elderly members of their families. She encourages 

them to bring these family members to meet other members of the development group.Alice also arranges monthly lunches for everyone in the group. These lunches are an opportunity for all team members to meet informally, talk around issues of concern, 
and get to know each other. At the lunch, Alice tells the group what she knows about 
organizational news, policies, strategies, and so forth. Each team member then briefly 
summarizes what they have been doing, and the group discusses a general topic, such 
as new product ideas from elderly relatives.Every few months, Alice organizes an ﬁaway dayﬂ for the group where the team spends two days on ﬁtechnology updating.ﬂ Each team member prepares an update on 
a relevant technology and presents it to the group. This is an offsite meeting, and 
plenty of time is scheduled for discussion and social interaction.