˜˜˚˜˜˜˜
˜˜
Use the requirements todevelop validation tests for
the system.Use the requirements
document to plan a bid for
the system and to plan the
system development process.Use the requirements to
understand what system is
to be developed.System test
engineers
ManagersSystem
engineers
Specify the requirements and
read them to check that they
meet their needs. Customers
specify changes to the
requirements.System
customersUse the requirements to
understand the system and
the relationships between its
parts.
System
maintenanceengineers
Figure 4.16 Users of a requirements documentThe diversity of possible users means that the requirements document has to be a compromise. It has to describe the requirements for customers, define the require-
ments in precise detail for developers and testers, as well as include information 

about future system evolution. Information on anticipated changes helps system 

designers to avoid restrictive design decisions and maintenance engineers to adapt 
the system to new requirements.The level of detail that you should include in a requirements document depends 
on the type of system that is being developed and the development process used. 

Critical systems need detailed requirements because safety and security have to be 
analyzed in detail to find possible requirements errors. When the system is to be 

developed by a separate company (e.g., through outsourcing), the system specifica-
tions need to be detailed and precise. If an in-house, iterative development process is 
used, the requirements document can be less detailed. Details can be added to the 

requirements and ambiguities resolved during development of the system.Figure 4.
17 shows one possible organization for a requirements document that is 
based on an IEEE standard for requirements documents (IEEE 1998). This standard 
is a generic one that can be adapted to specific uses. In this case, the standard has 
been extended to include information about predicted system evolution. This infor-
mation helps the maintainers of the system and allows designers to include support 
for future system features.