˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˘˜˘of lower cost staff in other countries, makes access to specialist skills possible, and 
allows for 24-hour development, with work going on in different time zones.Consequently, there have been developments of Scrum for distributed development 
environments and multi-team working. Typically, for offshore development, the prod
-
uct owner is in a different country from the development team, which may also be 

distributed. Figure 3.10 shows the requirements for Distributed Scrum (Deemer 2011).
Agile methods were developed for use by small programming teams that could work 
together in the same room and communicate informally. They were originally used 
by for the development of small and medium-sized systems and software products. 
Small companies, without formal processes or bureaucracy, were enthusiastic initial 
adopters of these methods.Of course, the need for faster delivery of software, which is more suited to cus-tomer needs, also applies to both larger systems and larger companies. Consequently, 
over the past few years, a lot of work has been put into evolving agile methods for 
both large software systems and for use in large companies.Scaling agile methods has closely related facets:1. Scaling up these methods to handle the development of large systems that are 
too big to be developed by a single small team.2. Scaling out these methods from specialized development teams to more widespread 

use in a large company that has many years of software development experience.Videoconferencing 
between the product 
owner and the 
development teamDistributed ScrumThe ScrumMaster 

should be located with 
the development team 
so that he or she is 
aware of everyday 
problems.The Product Owner 

should visit the 
developers and try to 
establish a good 
relationship with them. 
It is essential that they 
trust each other.
Real-time communica-tions between team 
members for informal 
communication, 
particularly instant 

messaging and video 

calls.Continuous integration, 

so that all team 
members can be aware 
of the state of the product at any time.A common development environment for all teamsFigure 3.10 Distributed Scrum 