˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜
˜˜
and conflicts between organizational objectives, and how people in the organi-zation interpret these objectives. New management may reinterpret the organi
-
zational objectives that a system was designed to support so that a ﬁsuccessfulﬂ 
system may then be seen as no longer fit for its intended purpose.Sociotechnical considerations are often critical in determining whether or not a 
system has successfully met its objectives. Unfortunately, taking these into account 
is very difficult for engineers who have little experience of social or cultural studies. 
To help understand the effects of systems on organizations, various sociotechnical 
systems methodologies have been proposed. My paper on sociotechnical systems 

design discusses the advantages and disadvantages of these sociotechnical design 

methodologies (Baxter and Sommerville 2011).ˇˇThe complex relationships between the components in a system mean that a system 

is more than simply the sum of its parts. It has properties that are properties of the 

system as a whole. These ﬁemergent propertiesﬂ (Checkland 1981) cannot be attrib-
uted to any specific part of the system. Rather, they only emerge once the system 

components have been integrated. Some emergent properties, such as weight, can be 

derived directly from the subsystem properties. More often, however, they emerge 

from a combination of subsystem properties and subsystem relationships. The 
 system property cannot be calculated directly from the properties of the individual 

system components. Examples of emergent properties are shown in Figure 19.5.There are two types of emergent properties:1. Functional emergent properties, when the purpose of a system only emerges after 

its components are integrated. For example, a bicycle has the functional property 

of being a transportation device once it has been assembled from its components.Figure 19.5 Examples of˜emergent propertiesPropertyDescriptionReliabilitySystem reliability depends on component reliability, but unexpected interactions 
can cause new types of failure and therefore affect the reliability of the system.RepairabilityThis property reflects how easy it is to fix a problem with the system once it has 
been discovered. It depends on being able to diagnose the problem, access the 
components that are faulty, and modify or replace these components.SecurityThe security of the system (its ability to resist attack) is a complex property that 
cannot be easily measured. Attacks may be devised that were not anticipated by 
the system designers and so may defeat built-in safeguards.UsabilityThis property reflects how easy it is to use the system. It depends on the 
technical system components, its operators, and its operating environment.VolumeThe volume of a system (the total space occupied) depends on how the 
component assemblies are arranged and connected.