˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜
˜˜
identifying the different system components, and understanding the relation
-ships between them.3. Requirements partitioning 
is concerned with deciding which subsystems (iden
-
tified in the system architecture) are responsible for implementing the system 

requirements. Requirements may have to be allocated to hardware, software, or 
operational processes and prioritized for implementation. Ideally, you should 

allocate requirements to individual subsystems so that the implementation of a 

critical requirement does not need subsystem collaboration. However, this is not 

always possible. At this stage you also decide on the operational processes and 
on how these are used in the requirements implementation.4. Subsystem engineering involves developing the software components of the sys-
tem, configuring off-the-shelf hardware and software, designing, if necessary, 

special-purpose hardware, defining the operational processes for the system, 

and re-designing essential business processes.5. System integration is the process of putting together system elements to create a 
new system. Only then do the emergent system properties become apparent.6. System testing is an extended activity where the whole system is tested and problems 

are exposed. The subsystem engineering and system integration phases are reentered 

to repair these problems, tune the performance of the system, and implement new 

requirements. System testing may involve both testing by the system developer and 

acceptance/user testing by the organization that has procured the system.7. System deployment is the process of making the system available to its users, 

transferring data from existing systems, and establishing communications with 
other systems in the environment. The process culminates with a ﬁgo live,ﬂ after 
which users start to use the system to support their work.Although the overall process is plan-driven, the processes of requirements devel-opment and system design are inextricably linked. The requirements and the high-level 
Subsystem engineeringArchitectural designRequi
rementsengineeringSystem
deploymentSystem
testingSystem integrationRequirementspartitioningFigure 19.10 The systems development 
process