˜˜˚˛˚˜˜˜
˜˜
If this renegotiation is unsuccessful or the risk mitigation actions are ineffective, then you should arrange for a formal project technical review. The objectives of this 
review are to find an alternative approach that will allow the project to continue. 

Reviews should also check that the customer™s goals are unchanged and that the 

project remains aligned with these goals.The outcome of a review may be a decision to cancel a project. This may be a result of technical or managerial failings but, more often, is a consequence of exter
-
nal changes that affect the project. The development time for a large software project 
is often several years. During that time, the business objectives and priorities inevi
-
tably change. These changes may mean that the software is no longer required or 

that the original project requirements are inappropriate. Management may then 

decide to stop software development or to make major changes to the project to 

reflect the changes in the organizational objectives.
Project scheduling is the process of deciding how the work in a project will be organ-
ized as separate tasks, and when and how these tasks will be executed. You estimate 
the calendar time needed to complete each task and the effort required, and you sug-
gest who will work on the tasks that have been identified. You also have to estimate 

the hardware and software resources that are needed to complete each task. For 

example, if you are developing an embedded system, you have to estimate the time 
that you need on specialized hardware and the costs of running a system simulator. 
In terms of the planning stages that I introduced in the introduction of this chapter, 
an initial project schedule is usually created during the project startup phase. This 

schedule is then refined and modified during development planning.Both plan-based and agile processes need an initial project schedule, although less 
detail is included in an agile project plan. This initial schedule is used to plan how peo-
ple will be allocated to projects and to check the progress of the project against its 

contractual commitments. In traditional development processes, the complete schedule 

is initially developed and then modified as the project progresses. In agile processes, 

there has to be an overall schedule that identifies when the major phases of the project 

will be completed. An iterative approach to scheduling is then used to plan each phase.Scheduling in plan-driven projects (Figure 23.4) involves breaking down the total work involved in a project into separate tasks and estimating the time required to 

complete each task. Tasks should normally last at least a week and no longer than 

2 months. Finer subdivision means that a disproportionate amount of time must be 

spent on re-planning and updating the project plan. The maximum amount of time 
for any task should be 6 to 8 weeks. If a task will take longer than this, it should be 

split into subtasks for project planning and scheduling.Some of these tasks are carried out in parallel, with different people working on 
different components of the system. You have to coordinate these parallel tasks and 
organize the work so that the workforce is used optimally and you don™t introduce 