˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Architectural design is concerned with understanding how a software system should be organized and designing the overall structure of that system. In the model of the 
software development process that I described in Chapter 2, architectural design is 
the first stage in the software design process. It is the critical link between design and 

requirements engineering, as it identifies the main structural components in a system 
and the relationships between them. The output of the architectural design process is 
an architectural model that describes how the system is organized as a set of 
 communicating components.
In agile processes, it is generally accepted that an early stage of an agile develop
-ment process should focus on designing an overall system architecture. Incremental 
development of architectures is not usually successful. Refactoring components in 

response to changes is usually relatively easy. However, refactoring the system 

architecture is expensive because you may need to modify most system components 
to adapt them to the architectural changes.To help you understand what I mean by system architecture, look at Figure 6.1. This diagram shows an abstract model of the architecture for a packing robot system. 

This robotic system can pack different kinds of objects. It uses a vision component 
to pick out objects on a conveyor, identify the type of object, and select the right 

kind of packaging. The system then moves objects from the delivery conveyor to be 

packaged. It places packaged objects on another conveyor. The architectural model 
shows these components and the links between them.In practice, there is a significant overlap between the processes of requirements engineering and architectural design. Ideally, a system specification should not 
Vision
systemObjectidentification
systemArm
controller
Grippercontroller
Packaging
selectionsystemPacking
systemConveyorcontroller
Figure 6.1
 The 
architecture of a packing 

robot control system