˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜
automate the entire process of handling change requests from the initial customer 
proposal to final change approval and change submission to the development team.The change management process is initiated when a system stakeholder completes and 
submits a change request describing the change required to the system. This could be a 

bug report, where the symptoms of the bug are described, or a request for additional func-
tionality to be added to the system. Some companies handle bug reports and new require-
ments separately, but, in principle, both are simply change requests. Change requests may 

be submitted using a change request form (CRF). Stakeholders may be system owners 

and users, beta testers, developers, or the marketing department of a company.Electronic change request forms record information that is shared between all 
groups involved in change management. As the change request is processed, infor
-
mation is added to the CRF to record decisions made at each stage of the process. At 
any time, it therefore represents a snapshot of the state of the change request. In 

addition to recording the change required, the CRF records the recommendations 

regarding the change, the estimated costs of the change, and the dates when the 

change was requested, approved, implemented, and validated. The CRF may also 

include a section where a developer outlines how the change may be implemented. 
Again, the degree of formality in the CRF varies depending on the size and type of 
organization that is developing the system. Figure 25.15 is an example of a type of CRF that might be used in a large com-plex systems engineering project. For smaller projects, I recommend that change 

requests should be formally recorded; the CRF should focus on describing the 
Change Request FormProject: SICSA/AppProcessing Number: 23/02Change requester: I. Sommerville Date: 20/07/12Requested change: The status of applicants (rejected, accepted, etc.) should be shown 
visually in the displayed list of applicants.Change analyzer: R. Looek Analysis date: 25/07/12Components affected: ApplicantListDisplay, StatusUpdater
Associated components: StudentDatabase
Change assessment: Relatively simple to implement by changing the display color according to status. A table must be added to relate status to colors. No changes to 
associated components are required.Change priority: MediumChange implementation:
Estimated effort: 2 hours
Date to SGA app. team: 28/07/12 CCB decision date: 30/07/12Decision: Accept change. Change to be implemented in Release 1.2
Change implementor: Date of change:Date submitted to QM: QM decision:Date submitted to CM:
Comments:Figure 25.15 A partially completed change 
request form