˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˘˜˘unlikely to work. There needs to be some up-front planning, design, and documentation 
in the systems engineering process. Some of the key issues are as follows:1. How large is the system that is being developed? Agile methods are most effective 
when the system can be developed with a relatively small co-located team who 

can communicate informally. This may not be possible for large systems that 
require larger development teams, so a plan-driven approach may have to be used.2. What type of system is being developed? Systems that require a lot of analysis 
before implementation (e.g., real-time system with complex timing require-
ments) usually need a fairly detailed design to carry out this analysis. A plan-
driven approach may be best in those circumstances.3. What is the expected system lifetime? Long-lifetime systems may require more 
design documentation to communicate the original intentions of the system 

developers to the support team. However, supporters of agile methods rightly 

argue that documentation is frequently not kept up to date and is not of much 
use for long-term system maintenance.4.
 Is the system subject to external regulation? If a system has to be approved 

by˜an external regulator (e.g., the Federal Aviation Administration approves 

software that is critical to the operation of an aircraft), then you will probably be 
required to produce detailed documentation as part of the system safety˜case.Agile methods place a great deal of responsibility on the development team to 
cooperate and communicate during the development of the system. They rely on indi-
vidual engineering skills and software support for the development process. However, 

in reality, not everyone is a highly skilled engineer, people do not communicate effec-
tively, and it is not always possible for teams to work together. Some planning may be 

required to make the most effective use of the people available. Key issues are:1.
 How good are the designers and programmers in the development team? 
It˜is˜sometimes argued that agile methods require higher skill levels than plan-

based approaches in which programmers simply translate a detailed design into 

code. If you have a team with relatively low skill levels, you may need to use 

the best people to develop the design, with others responsible for programming.
System
Team
OrganizationScaleTechnolo
gyDistributionContractsDeliveryRegulationType
LifetimeCompetenceCultureFigure 3.12 Factors influencing the choice  
of plan-based or agile 
development