˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜
˜˜
selected, you may negotiate with the supplier on costs, license conditions, 
 possible changes to the system, and other contractual issues. For custom sys-tems, negotiations are likely to involve payment schedules, reporting, accept-ance criteria, requirements change requests, and costs of system changes. During this process, requirements changes may be agreed that will reduce the overall 

costs and avoid some development problems.Complex sociotechnical systems are rarely developed ﬁin houseﬂ by the buyer of 
the system. Rather, external systems companies are invited to bid for the systems 

engineering contract. The customer™s business is not systems engineering, so its 

employees do not have the skills needed to develop the systems themselves. For 

complex hardware/software systems, it may be necessary to use a group of suppliers, 
each with a different type of expertise.For large systems, such as an air traffic management system, a group of suppliers may form a consortium to bid for a contract. The consortium should include all of the 
capabilities required for this type of system. For an ATC system, this would include 

computer hardware suppliers, software companies, peripheral suppliers, and suppli-
ers of specialist equipment such as radar systems.Customers do not usually wish to negotiate with multiple suppliers, so the contract 
is usually awarded to a principal contractor, who coordinates the project. The princi-
pal contractor coordinates the development of different subsystems by subcontrac-tors. The subcontractors design and build parts of the system to a specification that is 

negotiated with the principal contractor and the customer. Once completed, the prin-
cipal contractor integrates these components and delivers them to the customer.Decisions made at the procurement stage of the systems engineering process are 
critical for later stages in that process. Poor procurement decisions often lead to prob-lems such as late delivery of a system and development of systems that are unsuited to 

their operational environment. If the wrong system or the wrong supplier is chosen, then 

the technical processes of system and software engineering become more complex.For example, I studied a system ﬁfailureﬂ where a decision was made to choose an 
ERP˜system because this would ﬁstandardizeﬂ operations across the organization. These 

operations were very diverse, and it turned out there were good reasons for this. 

Standardization was practically impossible. The ERP system could not be adapted to cope 

with this diversity. It was ultimately abandoned after incurring costs of around £10 million.
Decisions and choices made during system procurement have a profound effect on the security and dependability of a system. For example, if a decision is made to 
procure an off-the-shelf system, then the organization has to accept that they have no 
influence over the security and dependability requirements of this system. System 

security depends on decisions made by system vendors. In addition, off-the-shelf 

systems may have known security weaknesses or may require complex configura
-tion. Configuration errors, where entry points to the system are not properly secured, 
are a significant source of security problems.On the other hand, a decision to procure a custom system means that a lot of effort 
must be devoted to understanding and defining security and dependability requirements. 

If a company has limited experience in this area, this is quite a difficult thing to do. If the 
