˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜who certify the acceptability of the system. For example, system stakeholders for the Mentcare system include:1. Patients whose information is recorded in the system and relatives of these patients.2. Doctors who are responsible for assessing and treating patients.3.
 Nurses who coordinate the consultations with doctors and administer some 
treatments.4. Medical receptionists who manage patients™ appointments.5. IT staff who are responsible for installing and maintaining the system.6. A medical ethics manager who must ensure that the system meets current ethi-
cal guidelines for patient care.7. Health care managers who obtain management information from the system.8. Medical records staff who are responsible for ensuring that system information 

can be maintained and preserved, and that record keeping procedures have been 
properly implemented.Requirements engineering is usually presented as the first stage of the software engineering process. However, some understanding of the system requirements may 
have to be developed before a decision is made to go ahead with the procurement or 
development of a system. This early-stage RE establishes a high-level view of what 
the system might do and the benefits that it might provide. These may then be con-
sidered in a feasibility study, which tries to assess whether or not the system is tech-
nically and financially feasible. The results of that study help management decide 
whether or not to go ahead with the procurement or development of the system.In this chapter, I present a ﬁtraditionalﬂ view of requirements rather than require-ments in agile processes, which I discussed in Chapter 3. For the majority of large 
systems, it is still the case that there is a clearly identifiable requirements engineering 

phase before implementation of the system begins. The outcome is a requirements 
document, which may be part of the system development contract. Of course, subsequent 

changes are made to the requirements, and user requirements may be expanded into Feasibility studiesA feasibility study is a short, focused study that should take place early in the RE process. It should answer three 
key questions: (1) Does the system contribute to the overall objectives of the organization? (2) Can the system 
be implemented within schedule and budget using current technology? and (3) Can the system be integrated 
with other systems that are used?If the answer to any of these questions is no, you should probably not go ahead with the project.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/feasibility-study/