˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜ˇˇGeneralization is an everyday technique that we use to manage complexity. 
Rather than learn the detailed characteristics of everything that we experience, we 

learn about general classes (animals, cars, houses, etc.) and learn the characteris-tics of these classes. We then reuse knowledge by classifying things and focus on 

the differences between them and their class. For example, squirrels and rats are 

members of the class ﬁrodents,ﬂ and so share the characteristics of rodents. 

General statements apply to all class members; for example, all rodents have teeth 

for gnawing.When you are modeling systems, it is often useful to examine the classes in a 
 system to see if there is scope for generalization and class creation. This means 

that common information will be maintained in one place only. This is good design 

practice as it means that, if changes are proposed, then you do not have to look at 

all classes in the system to see if they are affected by the change. You can make the 

changes at the most general level. In object-oriented languages, such as Java, 
 generalization is implemented using the class inheritance mechanisms built into 

the language.The UML has a specific type of association to denote generalization, as illus
-trated in Figure 5.11. The generalization is shown as an arrowhead pointing up to 

the more general class. This indicates that general practitioners and hospital doctors 

can be generalized as doctors and that there are three types of Hospital Doctor: 

those who have just graduated from medical school and have to be supervised 

(Trainee Doctor); those who can work unsupervised as part of a consultant™s team 

(Registered Doctor); and consultants, who are senior doctors with full decision-
making responsibilities.In a generalization, the attributes and operations associated with higher-level 
classes are also associated with the lower-level classes. The lower-level classes are 
subclasses that inherit the attributes and operations from their superclasses. These 

lower-level classes then add more specific attributes and operations.DoctorGeneralpractitionerHospitaldoctorConsultantTeam doctor
Trainee
doctorQualifieddoctorFigure 5.11 A generalization hierarchy