˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜ˇ
˜passed between services. Services in a service-oriented architecture are some
-times called SOAP-based services.
2. WSDL The Web Service Description Language (WSDL) is a standard for ser
-vice interface definition. It sets out how the service operations (operation names, 

parameters, and their types) and service bindings should be defined.
3. WS-BPEL This is a standard for a workflow language that is used to define pro
-cess programs involving several different services. I explain what process pro
-
grams are in Section 18.3.The UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration) discovery standard 
defines the components of a service specification intended to help potential users 

discover the existence of a service. This standard was meant to allow companies to set 

up registries, with UDDI descriptions defining the services they offered. Some com
-
panies set up UDDI registries in the early years of the 21st century, but users preferred 

standard search engines to find services. All public UDDI registries have now closed.
The principal SOA standards are supported by a range of supporting standards 
that focus on more specialized aspects of SOA. There are many supporting standards 

because they are intended to support SOA in different types of enterprise applica
-
tion. Some examples of these standards include:
1. WS-Reliable Messaging, 
a standard for message exchange that ensures mes
-sages will be delivered once and once only.
2. WS-Security, a set of standards supporting web service security, including stand
-ards that specify the definition of security policies and standards that cover the 
use of digital signatures.3. WS-Addressing, which defines how address information should be represented 
in a SOAP message.
4. WS-Transactions, which defines how transactions across distributed services 
should be coordinated.Web service standards are a huge topic, and I don™t have space to discuss them in 
detail here. I recommend Erl™s books (Erl 2004, 2005) for an overview of these 

standards. Their detailed descriptions are also available as public documents on the 

Web (W3C 2013).
˜˚˛
Message exchange, as I explained in Section 17.1, is an important mechanism for 

coordinating actions in a distributed computing system. Services in a SOA commu
-
nicate by exchanging messages, expressed in XML, and these messages are distrib
-
uted using standard Internet transport protocols such as HTTP and TCP/IP.
A service defines what it needs from another service by setting out its require
-ments in a message, which is sent to that service. The receiving service parses the 
