˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜3. The governance complexity of a system depends on the relationships between the laws, regulations, and policies that affect the system and the relationships 
between the decision-making processes in the organizations responsible for the 

system. As different parts of the system may be in different organizations and in 

different countries, different laws, rules, and policies may apply to each system 
within the SoS.Governance and managerial complexity are related, but they are not the same 
thing. Managerial complexity is an operational issueŠwhat can and can™t actually be 

done with the system. Governance complexity is associated with the higher level of 

decision-making processes in organizations that affect the system. These decision-
making processes are constrained by national and international laws and regulations.For example, say a company decides to allow its staff to access its systems using their own mobile devices rather than company-issued laptops. The decision to allow 
this is a governance decision because it changes the policy of the company. As a 

result of this decision, management of the system becomes more complex as manag-
ers have to ensure that the mobile devices are configured properly so that company 
data is secure. The technical complexity of the system also increases as there is no 
longer a single implementation platform. Software may have to be modified to work 
on laptops, tablets and phones.As well as technical complexity, the characteristics of systems of systems may also 
lead to significantly increased managerial and governance complexity. Figure 20.3 
summarizes how the different SoS characteristics primarily contribute to different 

types of complexity:1. Operational independence 
The constituent systems in the SoS are subject to dif
-ferent policies and rules (governance complexity) and ways of managing the 

system (managerial complexity).2. Managerial independence The constituent systems in the SoS are managed by 

different people in different ways. They have to coordinate to ensure that manage
-
ment changes are consistent (managerial complexity). Special software may be 

needed to support consistent management and evolution (technical complexity).3. Evolutionary development contributes to the technical complexity of a SoS because 

different parts of the system are likely to be built using different technologies.4.
 Emergence is a consequence of complexity. The more complex a system, the 

more likely it is that it will have undesirable emergent properties. These proper-
ties increase the technical complexity of the system as software has to be devel
-
oped or changed to compensate for them.5. Geographical distribution increases the technical, managerial, and governance 
complexity in a SoS. Technical complexity is increased because software is 

required to coordinate and synchronize remote systems; managerial complexity 

is increased because it is more difficult for managers in different countries to 

coordinate their actions; governance complexity is increased because different 