If your course has a practical component, management chapters in Part 4 may be substituted for some of these. 2.  
Introductory or intermediate courses on specific software engineering topics. You can create a range of more advanced courses using the chapters in parts 

2Œ4. For example, I have taught a course in critical systems using the chapters in 

Part 2 plus chapters on systems engineering and quality management. In a course 

covering software-intensive systems engineering, I used chapters on systems 

engineering, requirements engineering, systems of systems, distributed software 

engineering, embedded software, project management and project planning. 3.  
More advanced courses in specific software engineering topics. In this case, the 
chapters in the book form a foundation for the course. These are then supple-
mented with further reading that explores the topic in more detail. For example, 
a course on software reuse could be based around Chapters 15Œ18.
Instructors may access additional teaching support material from Pearson™s website. 
Some of this is password-protected and instructors using the book for teaching can 

obtain a password by registering at the Pearson website. The material available includes:


You can access this material at:www.pearsonglobaleditions.com/Sommerville
This book has been designed as a hybrid print/web text in which core information in the 
printed edition is linked to supplementary material on the web. Several chapters include 

specially written ‚web sections™ that add to the information in that chapter. There are also 

six ‚web chapters™ on topics that I have not covered in the print version of the book.You can download a wide range of supporting material from the book™s website (software-engineering-book.com) including:
-ommend other YouTube videos that can support learning.
-ent courses.
system, wilderness weather system, digital learning system), as well other case 
studies, such as the failure of the Ariane 5 launcher.˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝
