˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜2. Design risk assessment This risk assessment takes place during the system devel-opment life cycle and is informed by the technical system design and implementa-tion decisions. The results of the assessment may lead to changes to the security 

requirements and the addition of new requirements. Known and potential vulnera-bilities are identified, and this knowledge is used to inform decision making about 

the system functionality and how it is to be implemented, tested, and deployed.3. Operational risk assessment This risk assessment process focuses on the use of 
the system and the possible risks that can arise. For example, when a system is 
used in an environment where interruptions are common, a security risk is that a 

logged-in user leaves his or her computer unattended to deal with a problem. To 
counter this risk, a timeout requirement may be specified so that a user is auto-
matically logged out after a period of inactivity.Operational risk assessment should continue after a system has been installed to 
take account of how the system is used and proposals for new and changed require-
ments. Assumptions about the operating requirement made when the system was 

specified may be incorrect. Organizational changes may mean that the system is 

used in different ways from those originally planned. These changes lead to new 

security requirements that have to be implemented as the system evolves.The specification of security requirements for systems has much in common with 

the specification of safety requirements. You cannot specify safety or security 

requirements as probabilities. Like safety requirements, security requirements are 

often ﬁshall notﬂ requirements that define unacceptable system behavior rather than 
required system functionality.However, security is a more challenging problem than safety, for a number of 
reasons:1.
 When considering safety, you can assume that the environment in which the 
system is installed is not hostile. No one is trying to cause a safety-related inci-
dent. When considering security, you have to assume that attacks on the system 

are deliberate and that the attacker may have knowledge of system weaknesses.2. When system failures occur that pose a risk to safety, you look for the errors or 
omissions that have caused the failure. When deliberate attacks cause system 

failure, finding the root cause may be more difficult as the attacker may try to 
conceal the cause of the failure.3. It is usually acceptable to shut down a system or to degrade system services to 
avoid a safety-related failure. However, attacks on a system may be denial-of-
service attacks, which are intended to compromise system availability. Shutting 

down the system means that the attack has been successful.