˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
decide that additional software needs to be bought or written for threat recogni-tion or that regular checking procedures are put in place.4. Threat resistance For each threat or asset/threat pair, you should identify possi-
ble resistance strategies. These either may be embedded in the system (technical 
strategies) or may rely on operational procedures. You may also need to think of 
threat neutralization strategies so that the threat does not recur.5. Asset recovery For each critical asset or asset/threat pair, you should work out 
how that asset could be recovered in the event of a successful cyberattack. This 
may involve making extra hardware available or changing backup procedures to 
make it easier to access redundant copies of data.6. Asset reinstatement This is a more general process of asset recovery where you 
define procedures to bring the system back into normal operation. Asset rein-
statement should be concerned with all assets and not simply assets that are 

critical to the organization.Information about all of these stages should be maintained in a cyber-resilience plan. This plan should be regularly updated, and, wherever possible, the strategies 
identified should be tested in mock attacks on the system.Another important part of cyber-resilience planning is to decide how to support a flex
-ible response in the event of a cyberattack. Paradoxically, resilience and security 
 requirements often conflict. The aim of security is usually to limit privilege as far as pos-
sible so that users can only do what the security policy of the organization allows. 

However, to deal with problems, a user or system operator may have to take the initiative 

and take actions that are normally carried out by someone with a higher level of privilege.
For example, the system manager of a medical system may not normally be 
allowed to change the access rights of medical staff to records. For security reasons, 
access permissions have to be formally authorized, and two people need to be 

involved in making the change. This reduces the chances of system managers col-
luding with attackers and allowing access to confidential medical information.Now, imagine that the system manager notices that a logged-in user is accessing a large number of records outside of normal working hours. The manager suspects Threatrecognition Cyber-resilience planInterfacedevelopment Integration anddeployment AssetclassificationThreatidentificationThreatresistanceInterfacedevelopment Integration anddeployment AssetrecoveryAsset reinstatementFigure 14.2 Cyber-resilience planning 