˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜ boundaries explicitly but instead to develop a configurable system that can be 
adapted to the needs of different users. This was the approach that we adopted in the 
iLearn systems, introduced in Chapter 1. There, users range from very young 
 children who can™t read through to young adults, their teachers, and school adminis-
trators. Because these groups need different system boundaries, we specified a 
 configuration system that would allow the boundaries to be specified when the 
 system was deployed.The definition of a system boundary is not a value-free judgment. Social and 
organizational concerns may mean that the position of a system boundary may be 

determined by nontechnical factors. For example, a system boundary may be delib-
erately positioned so that the complete analysis process can be carried out on one 

site; it may be chosen so that a particularly difficult manager need not be consulted; 

and it may be positioned so that the system cost is increased and the system develop-
ment division must therefore expand to design and implement the system.Once some decisions on the boundaries of the system have been made, part of the 
analysis activity is the definition of that context and the dependencies that a system 
has on its environment. Normally, producing a simple architectural model is the first 
step in this activity.Figure 5.
1 is a context model that shows the Mentcare system and the other 
systems in its environment. You can see that the Mentcare system is connected to 

an appointments system and a more general patient record system with which it 

shares data. The system is also connected to systems for management reporting and 

hospital admissions, and a statistics system that collects information for research. 

Finally, it makes use of a prescription system to generate prescriptions for patients™ 

medication.Context models normally show that the environment includes several other auto-mated systems. However, they do not show the types of relationships between the 

systems in the environment and the system that is being specified. External systems 
might produce data for or consume data from the system. They might share data with 
the system, or they might be connected directly, through a network or not connected 
at all. They might be physically co-located or located in separate buildings. All of «system»
Mentcare«system»
Patient record
system«system»
Appointmentssystem«system»Admissionssystem«system»Managementreporting
system«system»Prescriptionsystem«system»HC statisticssystemFigure 5.1 The context of the Mentcare system