˜˜˚ˆ˜˜˜
˜˜
For example, a system for supply chain management can be adapted for different 
types of suppliers, goods, and contractual arrangements.As a software designer, you can use models of application architectures in a num-ber of ways:1. As a starting point for the architectural design process 
If you are unfamiliar 
with the type of application that you are developing, you can base your initial 
design on a generic application architecture. You then specialize this for the 

specific  system that is being developed.2. As a design checklist If you have developed an architectural design for an appli-
cation system, you can compare this with the generic application architecture. 

You can check that your design is consistent with the generic architecture.3. As a way of organizing the work of the development team The application archi-
tectures identify stable structural features of the system architectures, and in 

many cases, it is possible to develop these in parallel. You can assign work to 
group members to implement different components within the architecture.4. As a means of assessing components for reuse If you have components you 

might be able to reuse, you can compare these with the generic structures to see 
whether there are comparable components in the application architecture.5. As a vocabulary for talking about applications If you are discussing a specific 
application or trying to compare applications, then you can use the concepts 

identified in the generic architecture to talk about these applications.There are many types of application system, and, in some cases, they may seem to 
be very different. However, superficially dissimilar applications may have much in 
common and thus share an abstract application architecture. I illustrate this by 

describing the architectures of two types of application:1. Transaction processing applications Transaction processing applications are 
database-centered applications that process user requests for information and 

update the information in a database. These are the most common types of inter-
active business systems. They are organized in such a way that user actions 

can™t interfere with each other and the integrity of the database is maintained. 

This class of system includes interactive banking systems, e-commerce systems, 
information systems, and booking systems.Application architecturesThere are several examples of application architectures on the book™s website. These include descriptions of 
batch data-processing systems, resource allocation systems, and event-based editing systems.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/apparch/