˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜whose malfunctioning might result in a design fault in the object being designed. 
This fault may cause injury to people if the designed system malfunctions. Another 

example of a secondary safety-critical system is the Mentcare system for mental 

health patient management. Failure of this system, whereby an unstable patient may 

not be treated properly, could lead to that patient injuring himself or others. Some control systems, such as those controlling critical national infrastructure (elec-
tricity supply, telecommunications, sewage treatment, etc.), are secondary safety-
critical systems. Failure of these systems is unlikely to have immediate human 

consequences. However, a prolonged outage of the controlled systems could lead to 

injury and death. For example, failure of a sewage treatment system could lead to a 

higher level of infectious disease as raw sewage is released into the environment.I explained in Chapter 11 how software and system availability and reliability are 
achieved through fault avoidance, fault detection and removal, and fault tolerance. 

Safety-critical systems development uses these approaches and augments them with 

hazard-driven techniques that consider the potential system accidents that may occur:1. Hazard avoidance The system is designed so that hazards are avoided. For 
example, a paper-cutting system that requires an operator to use two hands to 
press separate buttons simultaneously avoids the hazard of the operator™s hands 
being in the blade™s pathway.2. Hazard detection and removal The system is designed so that hazards are 

detected and removed before they result in an accident. For example, a chemical 
plant system may detect excessive pressure and open a relief valve to reduce 

pressure before an explosion occurs.3. Damage limitation 
The system may include protection features that minimize 

the damage that may result from an accident. For example, an aircraft engine 

normally includes automatic fire extinguishers. If there is an engine fire, it can 
often be controlled before it poses a threat to the aircraft.A hazard is a system state that could lead to an accident. Using the above example of the paper-cutting system, a hazard arises when the operator™s hand is in a position 
where the cutting blade could injure it. Hazards are not accidentsŠwe often get our-
selves into hazardous situations and get out of them without any problems. However, 
accidents are always preceded by hazards, so reducing hazards reduces accidents.A hazard is one example of the specialized vocabulary that is used in  safety-critical sys-tems engineering. I explain other terminology used in safety-critical systems in Figure 
12.1.We are now actually pretty good at building systems that can cope with one thing 
going wrong. We can design mechanisms into the system that can detect and recover 

from single problems. However, when several things go wrong at the same time, acci-
dents are more likely. As systems become more and more complex, we don™t understand 

the relationships between the different parts of the system. Consequently, we cannot 

predict the consequences of a combination of unexpected system events or failures.In an analysis of serious accidents, Perrow (Perrow 1984) suggested that almost all of the accidents were due to a combination of failures in different parts of a system. 
