Security risk assessment during requirements engineering identifies a set of high-level security requirements for a system. However, as the system is designed and 

implemented, architectural and technology decisions made during the system design 
process influence the security of a system. These decisions generate new design 

requirements and may mean that existing requirements have to change.System design and the assessment of design-related risks are interleaved pro
-cesses (Figure 13.10). Preliminary design decisions are made, and the risks associ-
ated with these decisions are assessed. This assessment may lead to new requirements 

to mitigate the risks that have been identified or design changes to reduce these risks. 

As the system design evolves and is developed in more detail, the risks are reas
-
sessed and the results are fed back to the system designers. The design risk assess-
ment process ends when the design is complete and the remaining risks are acceptable.When assessing risks during design and implementation, you have more informa
-tion about what needs to be protected, and you also will know something about the 
vulnerabilities in the system. Some of these vulnerabilities will be inherent in the 

design choices made. For example, an inherent vulnerability in password-based 

authentication is that an authorized user reveals their password to an unauthorized 
user. So, if password-based authentication is used, the risk assessment process may 
suggest new requirements to mitigate the risk. For example, there may be a require-
ment for multifactor authentication where users must authenticate themselves using 
some personal knowledge as well as a password.Denial-of-service attacksDenial-of-service attacks attempt to bring down a networked system by bombarding it with a huge number of 
service requests, usually from hundreds of attacking systems. These place a load on the system for which it was 
not designed and they exclude legitimate requests for system service. Consequently, the system may become 
unavailable either because it crashes with the heavy load or has to be taken offline by system managers to stop 
the flow of requests.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/denial-of-service/Design riskassessmentSystemdesignTechnology
choicesDesign assetsDesign andrequirementschangesArchitecturaldesignSystem requirementsFigure 13.10
 Interleaved 
design and risk 
assessment 
˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜
˜˜˜
