˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
being produced. I therefore choose an appropriate example when discussing con-cepts such as safety and dependability, system modeling, reuse, etc.The system types that I use as case studies are:1. An embedded system This is a system where the software controls some hard
-ware device and is embedded in that device. Issues in embedded systems typi-
cally include physical size, responsiveness, and power management, etc. The 

example of an embedded system that I use is a software system to control an 

insulin pump for people who have diabetes.2. An information system The primary purpose of this type of system is to manage 
and provide access to a database of information. Issues in information systems 
include security, usability, privacy, and maintaining data integrity. The example 
of an information system used is a medical records system.3. A sensor-based data collection system This is a system whose primary purposes 
are to collect data from a set of sensors and to process that data in some way. 

The key requirements of such systems are reliability, even in hostile environ-
mental conditions, and maintainability. The example of a data collection system 
that I use is a wilderness weather station.4. A support environment. 
This is an integrated collection of software tools that are 

used to support some kind of activity. Programming environments, such as 

Eclipse (Vogel 2012) will be the most familiar type of environment for readers 
of this book. I describe an example here of a digital learning environment that 
is˜used to support students™ learning in schools.I introduce each of these systems in this 
chapter; more information about each of 
them is available on the website (software-engineering-book.com).

An insulin pump is a medical system that simulates the operation of the pancreas (an 
internal organ). The software controlling this system is an embedded system that 

collects information from a sensor and controls a pump that delivers a controlled 

dose of insulin to a user.People who suffer from diabetes use the system. Diabetes is a relatively common 
condition in which the human pancreas is unable to produce sufficient quantities of 
a hormone called insulin. Insulin metabolizes glucose (sugar) in the blood. The con-
ventional treatment of diabetes involves regular injections of genetically engineered 

insulin. Diabetics measure their blood sugar levels periodically using an external 

meter and then estimate the dose of insulin they should inject.The problem is that the level of insulin required does not just depend on the blood 
glucose level but also on the time of the last insulin injection. Irregular checking can 

lead to very low levels of blood glucose (if there is too much insulin) or very high 

levels of blood sugar (if there is too little insulin). Low blood glucose is, in the short 

term, a more serious condition as it can result in temporary brain malfunctioning and, 
