˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜without changing other parts of the system. Furthermore, when layer interfaces 
change or new facilities are added to a layer, only the adjacent layer is affected. As 
layered systems localize machine dependencies, this makes it easier to provide 

multi-platform implementations of an application system. Only the machine-
 dependent layers need be reimplemented to take account of the facilities of a  different operating system or database.Figure 6.
8 is an example of a layered architecture with four layers. The lowest 
layer includes system support softwareŠtypically, database and operating system 

support. The next layer is the application layer, which includes the components 

concerned with the application functionality and utility components used by other 

application components.The third layer is concerned with user interface management and providing user 
authentication and authorization, with the top layer providing user interface facili
-
ties. Of course, the number of layers is arbitrary. Any of the layers in Figure 6.6 
could be split into two or more layers.Figure 6.7 The Layered˜Architecture 
patternNameLayered architectureDescriptionOrganizes the system into layers, with related functionality associated with each layer. A layer 
provides services to the layer above it, so the lowest level layers represent core services that 
are likely to be used throughout the system. See Figure 6.8.ExampleA layered model of a digital learning system to support learning of all subjects in schools (Figure 6.9).When usedUsed when building new facilities on top of existing systems; when the development is 
spread across several teams with each team responsibility for a layer of functionality; when 
there is a requirement for multilevel security.AdvantagesAllows replacement of entire layers as long as the interface is˜maintained. Redundant facilities 

(e.g., authentication) can be provided in each layer to increase the dependability of the˜system.DisadvantagesIn practice, providing a clean separation between layers is often difficult, and a high-level layer 
may have to interact directly with lower-level layers rather than through the layer immediately 
below it. Performance can be a problem because of multiple levels of interpretation of a 
service request as it is processed at each layer.User interface
Core business logic/application functionality
System utilities
System support (OS, database, etc.)
User interface management
Authentication and authorization
Figure 6.8 A generic layered architecture