˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜A number of requirements validation techniques can be used individually or in conjunction with one another:1. Requirements reviews The requirements are analyzed systematically by a team of reviewers who check for errors and inconsistencies.2. Prototyping This involves developing an executable model of a system and 
using this with end-users and customers to see if it meets their needs and expec-
tations. Stakeholders experiment with the system and feed back requirements 

changes to the development team.3. Test-case generation Requirements should be testable. If the tests for the 

requirements are devised as part of the validation process, this often reveals 

requirements problems. If a test is difficult or impossible to design, this usually 
means that the requirements will be difficult to implement and should be recon
-
sidered. Developing tests from the user requirements before any code is written 
is an integral part of test-driven development.You should not underestimate the problems involved in requirements validation. Ultimately, it is difficult to show that a set of requirements does in fact meet a user™s 
needs. Users need to picture the system in operation and imagine how that system 

would fit into their work. It is hard even for skilled computer professionals to per-
form this type of abstract analysis and harder still for system users.As a result, you rarely find all requirements problems during the requirements 
validation process. Inevitably, further requirements changes will be needed to cor-
rect omissions and misunderstandings after agreement has been reached on the 

requirements document.The requirements for large software systems are always changing. One reason for 

the frequent changes is that these systems are often developed to address ﬁwickedﬂ 
problemsŠproblems that cannot be completely defined (Rittel and Webber 1973). 
Because the problem cannot be fully defined, the software requirements are bound to Requirements reviewsA requirements review is a process in which a group of people from the system customer and the system devel-

oper read the requirements document in detail and check for errors, anomalies, and inconsistencies. Once these 
have been detected and recorded, it is then up to the customer and the developer to negotiate how the identi-

fied problems should be solved.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/requirements-reviews/