˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜
˜˜˜
2. Select the existing system that is the closest fit to the requirements When creat-ing a new member of a product line, you may start with the nearest product 

instance. The requirements are analyzed, and the family member that is the clos
-
est fit is chosen for modification.3. Renegotiate requirements As more details of required changes emerge and the 
project is planned, some requirements may be renegotiated with the customer to 
minimize the changes that will have to be made to the base application.4. Adapt existing system New modules are developed for the existing system, and 
existing system modules are adapted to meet the new requirements.5. Deliver new product family member The new instance of the product line is 

delivered to the customer. Some deployment-time configuration may be 

required to reflect the particular environments where the system will be used. At 
this stage, you should document its key features so that it may be used as a basis 
for other system developments in the future.When you create a new member of a product line, you may have to find a com-promise between reusing as much of the generic application as possible and satis-
fying detailed stakeholder requirements. The more detailed the system 

requirements, the less likely it is that the existing components will meet these 

requirements. However, if stakeholders are willing to be flexible and to limit the 

system modifications that are required, you can usually deliver the system more 

quickly and at a lower cost.Software product lines are designed to be reconfigurable. This reconfigura
-tion may involve adding or removing components from the system, defining 

parameters and constraints for system components, and including knowledge of 

business processes. This configuration may occur at different stages in the devel-
opment process:1. Design-time configuration The organization that is developing the software 
modifies a common product-line core by developing, selecting, or adapting 

components to create a new system for a customer.2. Deployment-time configuration A generic system is designed for configuration 
by a customer or consultants working with the customer. Knowledge of the 
 customer™s specific requirements and the system™s operating environment is 

embedded in the configuration data used by the generic system.When a system is configured at design time, the supplier starts with either a 
generic system or an existing product instance. By modifying and extending mod-
ules in this system, the supplier creates a specific system that delivers the required 

customer functionality. This usually involves changing and extending the source 

code of the system so that greater flexibility is possible than with deployment-

time configuration.