˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜The requirements for a system are the descriptions of the services that a system should 
provide and the constraints on its operation. These requirements reflect the needs of 

customers for a system that serves a certain purpose such as controlling a device, placing 

an order, or finding information. The process of finding out, analyzing, documenting 

and checking these services and constraints is called requirements engineering (RE).The term requirement is not used consistently in the software industry. In some cases, a requirement is simply a high-level, abstract statement of a service that a 

system should provide or a constraint on a system. At the other extreme, it is a 

detailed, formal definition of a system function. Davis (Davis 1993) explains why 
these differences exist:If a company wishes to let a contract for a large software development project, 

it must define its needs in a sufficiently abstract way that a solution is not pre-
defined. The requirements must be written so that several contractors can bid 
for the contract, offering, perhaps, different ways of meeting the client organi-
zation™s needs. Once a contract has been awarded, the contractor must write a 

system definition for the client in more detail so that the client understands 

and can validate what the software will do. Both of these documents may be 

called the requirements document for the systemƒ.Some of the problems that arise during the requirements engineering process are a result of failing to make a clear separation between these different levels of descrip-
tion. I distinguish between them by using the term user requirements to mean the 
high-level abstract requirements and system requirements to mean the detailed 

description of what the system should do. User requirements and system require
-
ments may be defined as follows:1. User requirements are statements, in a natural language plus diagrams, of what ser-vices the system is expected to provide to system users and the constraints under 

which it must operate. The user requirements may vary from broad statements of the 

system features required to detailed, precise descriptions of the system functionality.2.
 System requirements are more detailed descriptions of the software system™s 

functions, services, and operational constraints. The system requirements docu-
ment (sometimes called a functional specification) should define exactly what is 
to be implemented. It may be part of the contract between the system buyer and 
the software developers.Different kinds of requirement are needed to communicate information about a system to different types of reader. Figure 4.1 illustrates the distinction between user 
and system requirements. This example from the mental health care patient informa-
tion system (Mentcare) shows how a user requirement may be expanded into several 
system requirements. You can see from Figure 4.1 that the user requirement is quite ƒDavis, A. M. 1993. Software Requirements: Objects, Functions and States. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall.