˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜˜The operational profile of a software system reflects how it will be used in practice. It consists of a specification of classes of input and the probability of their occur
-
rence. When a new software system replaces an existing automated system, it is 

reasonably easy to assess the probable pattern of usage of the new software. It should 
correspond to the existing usage, with some allowance made for the new functional-
ity that is (presumably) included in the new software. For example, an operational 
profile can be specified for telephone switching systems because telecommunication 
companies know the call patterns that these systems have to handle.Typically, the operational profile is such that the inputs that have the highest 
probability of being generated fall into a small number of classes, as shown on the 
left of Figure 11.14. There are many classes where inputs are highly improbable but 
not impossible. These are shown on the right of Figure 11.14. The ellipsis (. . .) 

means that there are many more of these uncommon inputs than are shown.Musa (Musa 1998) discusses the development of operational profiles in tele-communication systems. As there is a long history of collecting usage data in that 

domain, the process of operational profile development is relatively straightfor-
ward. It simply reflects the historical usage data. For a system that required about 

15  person-years of development effort, an operational profile was developed in 
about 1 person-month. In other cases, operational profile generation took longer 

(2Œ3  person-years), but the cost was spread over a number of system releases.When a software system is new and innovative, however, it is difficult to antici-pate how it will be used. Consequently, it is practically impossible to create an accu
-rate operational profile. Many different users with different expectations, 

backgrounds, and experience may use the new system. There is no historical usage 

database. These users may make use of systems in ways that the system developers 

did not anticipate.Developing an accurate operational profile is certainly possible for some types of system, such as telecommunication systems, that have a standardized pattern of use. 

However, for other types of system, developing an accurate operational profile may 
be difficult or impossible:1. A system may have many different users who each have their own ways of 
using the system. As I explained earlier in this chapter, different users have 
Reliability growth modelingA reliability growth model is a model of how the system reliability changes over time during the testing process. 
As system failures are discovered, the underlying faults causing these failures are repaired so that the reliability 
of the system should improve during system testing and debugging. To predict reliability, the conceptual reliabil-

ity growth model must then be translated into a mathematical model.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/reliability-growth-modeling/