˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜Behavioral models are models of the dynamic behavior of a system as it is execut-ing. They show what happens or what is supposed to happen when a system responds 
to a stimulus from its environment. These stimuli may be either data or events:1. Data becomes available that has to be processed by the system. The availability of the data triggers the processing.2. An event happens that triggers system processing. Events may have associated 
data, although this is not always the case.Many business systems are data-processing systems that are primarily driven by data. They are controlled by the data input to the system, with relatively little exter-
nal event processing. Their processing involves a sequence of actions on that data 
and the generation of an output. For example, a phone billing system will accept 

information about calls made by a customer, calculate the costs of these calls, and 
generate a bill for that customer.By contrast, real-time systems are usually event-driven, with limited data pro
-cessing. For example, a landline phone switching system responds to events such as 
ﬁhandset activatedﬂ by generating a dial tone, pressing keys on a handset by captur
-
ing the phone number, and so on.ˇˇData-driven models show the sequence of actions involved in processing input data 
and generating an associated output. They can be used during the analysis of require
-
ments as they show end-to-end processing in a system. That is, they show the entire 

sequence of actions that takes place from an initial input being processed to the cor-
responding output, which is the system™s response.Data-driven models were among the first graphical software models. In the 1970s, structured design methods used data-flow diagrams (DFDs) as a way to illustrate the Data flow diagramsData-flow diagrams (DFDs) are system models that show a functional perspective where each transformation 
represents a single function or process. DFDs are used to show how data flows through a sequence of process-

ing steps. For example, a processing step could be the filtering of duplicate records in a customer database. The 
data is transformed at each step before moving on to the next stage. These processing steps or transformations 
represent software processes or functions, where data-flow diagrams are used to document a software design. 
Activity diagrams in the UML may be used to represent DFDs.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/dfds/