˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜For example, consider the following Mentcare system requirements that are con-cerned with checking for drug allergies:If a patient is known to be allergic to any particular medication, then prescrip-tion of that medication shall result in a warning message being issued to the 

system user.If a prescriber chooses to ignore an allergy warning, he or she shall provide 
a reason why this has been ignored.To check if these requirements have been satisfied, you may need to develop sev-eral related tests:1. Set up a patient record with no known allergies. Prescribe medication for aller
-gies that are known to exist. Check that a warning message is not issued by the 

system.2. Set up a patient record with a known allergy. Prescribe the medication that the 
patient is allergic to and check that the warning is issued by the system.3.
 Set up a patient record in which allergies to two or more drugs are recorded. 

Prescribe both of these drugs separately and check that the correct warning for 
each drug is issued.4. Prescribe two drugs that the patient is allergic to. Check that two warnings are 

correctly issued.5. Prescribe a drug that issues a warning and overrule that warning. Check that the 
system requires the user to provide information explaining why the warning was 

overruled.You can see from this list that testing a requirement does not mean just writing a single test. You normally have to write several tests to ensure that you have coverage 
of the requirement. You should also keep traceability records of your requirements-
based testing, which link the tests to the specific requirements that you have tested.Scenario testing is an approach to release testing whereby you devise typical sce
-narios of use and use these scenarios to develop test cases for the system. A scenario 
is a story that describes one way in which the system might be used. Scenarios 

should be realistic, and real system users should be able to relate to them. If you have 
used scenarios or user stories as part of the requirements engineering process 

(described in Chapter 4), then you may be able to reuse them as testing scenarios.In a short paper on scenario testing, Kaner (Kaner 2003) suggests that a scenario 
test should be a narrative story that is credible and fairly complex. It should moti-
vate stakeholders; that is, they should relate to the scenario and believe that it is 
