˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜fails, it can also act as the main server for the whole system. This provides con-tinuity of service and recovery after a server failure (resistance and recovery).3. Database integrity checking and recovery software Integrity checking runs as a 
background task checking for signs of database corruption. If corruption is dis-
covered, it can automatically initiate the recovery of some or all of the data from 
backups. The transaction log allows these backups to be updated with details of 
recent changes (recognition and recovery).To maintain the key services of patient information access and staff warning, we can make use of the inherent redundancy in a client-server system. By downloading 

information to the client at the start of a clinic session, the consultation can continue 

without server access. Only the information about the patients who are scheduled to 

attend consultations that day needs to be downloaded. If there is a need to access 

other patient information and the server is unavailable, then other client computers 
may be contacted using peer-to-peer communication to see if the information is 

available on them.The service that provides a warning to staff of patients who may be dangerous can easily be implemented using this approach. The records of patients who may 

harm themselves or others are identified before the download process. When clinical 

staff access these records, the software can highlight the records to indicate the 

patients that require special care.Figure 14.11  Recognition and 
resistance strategies  
for adverse events EventRecognitionResistanceServer 
unavailability1.  Watchdog timer on client 
that times out if no response 
to client access2.  Text messages from system 
managers to clinical users1.  Design system architecture to maintain local 
copies of critical information2.  Provide peer-to-peer search across clients for 
patient data3.  Provide staff with smartphones that can be 
used to access the network in the event of 
server failure4. Provide backup serverPatient database 
corruption1.  Record level cryptographic 
checksums2.  Regular auto-checking of 
database integrity3.  Reporting system for 
incorrect information1.  Replayable transaction log to update database 
backup with recent transactions2.  Maintenance of local copies of patient 
information and software to restore database 
from local copies and backupsMalware 
infection of 
client computers1.  Reporting system so that 
computer users can report 
unusual behavior2.  Automated malware checks 
on startup1.  Security awareness workshops for all system users2.  Disabling of USB ports on client computers3. Automated system setup for new clients
4. Support access to system from mobile devices
5. Installation of security softwareUnauthorized 
access to patient 
information1.  Warning text messages from 

users about possible intruders2.  Log analysis for unusual 
activity1. Multilevel system authentication process
2. Disabling of USB ports on client computers
3. Access logging and real-time log analysis
4.  Security awareness workshops for all system users