˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜functionality across hardware, software, and operational processes. You also make 
decisions about which hardware and software has to be acquired, which suppliers 

should develop the system, and the terms and conditions of the supply contract.3. Development During this stage, the system is developed. 
Development pro-cesses include requirements definition, system design, hardware and software 

engineering, system integration, and testing. Operational processes are defined, 

and the training courses for system users are designed.4. Operation At this stage, the system is deployed, users are trained, and the sys
-tem is brought into use. The planned operational processes usually then have to 

change to reflect the real working environment where the system is used. Over 
time, the system evolves as new requirements are identified. Eventually, the 

system declines in value, and it is decommissioned and replaced.Figure 19.
1 shows the interactions between these stages. The conceptual design activity is a basis for the system procurement and development but is also used to 
provide information to users about the system. Development and procurement over-lap and further procurement during development, and operation may be needed as 

new equipment and software become available. Once the system is operational, 

requirements changes are inevitable; implementing these changes requires further 

development and, perhaps, software and hardware procurement.Decisions made at any one of these stages may have a profound influence on the other stages. 
Design options may be restricted by procurement decisions on the 
scope of the system and on its hardware and software. Human errors made during 
the specification, design, and development stages may mean that faults are intro-
duced into the system. A decision to limit testing for budget reasons may mean that 
faults are not discovered before a system is put into use. 
During operation, errors in 
configuring the system for deployment may lead to problems in using the system. Decisions made during the original procurement may be forgotten when system 
changes are proposed. This may lead to unforeseen consequences arising from the 

implementation of the changes.An important difference between systems and software engineering is the 
involvement of a range of professionals throughout the lifetime of the system. 

These include engineers who may be involved in hardware and software design, 

system end-users, managers who are concerned with organizational issues, and 

experts in the system™s application domain. For example, engineering the insulin 

pump system introduced in Chapter 1 requires experts in electronics, mechanical 

engineering, software, and medicine.For very large systems, an even wider range of expertise may be required. 
Figure 19.
2 illustrates the technical disciplines that may be involved in the procure-
ment and development of a new system for air traffic management. Architects and 
civil 
 engineers are involved because new air traffic management systems usually 
have to be installed in a new building. Electrical and mechanical engineers are 
involved to specify and maintain the power and air conditioning. Electronic engi
-neers are 
 concerned with computers, radars, and other equipment. Ergonomists 
