˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜problem early in the process and take actions to ensure that appropriate governance is in place. It may be the case that you need to adopt a governance model that moves 
a system from one class to another. Moving the governance model to the left in 

Figure 20.4 usually reduces complexity.As I have suggested, the school digital learning environment (iLearn) is a system of systems. As well as the digital learning system itself, it is connected to school 

administration systems and to network management systems. These network man-
agement systems are used for Internet filtering, which stops students from accessing 

undesirable material on the Internet.iLearn is a relatively simple technical system, but it has a high level of govern-ance complexity. This complexity arises because of the way that education is funded 
and managed. In many countries pre-university education is funded and organized at 

a local level rather than at a national level. States, cities, or counties are responsible 

for schools in their area and have autonomy in deciding school funding and policies. 
Each local authority maintains its own school administration system and network 

management system.In Scotland, there are 32 local authorities with responsibility for education in 
their area. School administration is outsourced to one of three providers and iLearn 
must connect to their systems. However, each local authority has its own network 
management policies with separate network management systems involved.The development of a digital learning system is a national initiative, but to cre
-ate a digital learning environment, it has to be integrated with network manage-
ment and school administration systems. It is therefore a system of systems with 

administration and network management systems, as well as the systems within 

iLearn such as Office 365 and Wordpress. There is no common governance pro-
cess across authorities, so, according to the classification scheme, this is a coali-
tion of systems. In practice, this means that it cannot be guaranteed that students 

in different places can access the same tools and content, because of different 

Internet filtering policies.When we produced the conceptual model for the system, we made a strong rec-ommendation that common policies should be established across local authorities on 
administrative information provision and Internet filtering. In essence, we suggested 
that the system should be a federated system rather than a coalition of systems. This 

suggestion requires a new governance body to be established to agree on common 
policies and standards for the system.I have already suggested that our current software engineering methods and tech-
nologies cannot cope with the complexity that is inherent in modern systems of sys
-
tems. Of course, this idea is not new: Progress in all engineering disciplines has 

always been driven by challenging and difficult problems. New methods and tools 
are developed in response to failures and difficulties with existing approaches.