engineering projects, such as new transport systems, that are complex and innova-tive. Given the difficulties involved, it is perhaps remarkable that so many software 
projects are delivered on time and to budget.It is impossible to write a standard job description for a software project manager. The 
job varies tremendously depending on the organization and the software being developed. 

Some of the most important factors that affect how software projects are managed are:1. Company size 
Small companies can operate with informal management and 
team communications and do not need formal policies and management struc-tures. They have less management overhead than larger organizations. In larger 
organizations, management hierarchies, formal reporting and budgeting, and 

approval processes must be followed.2. Software customers 
If the customer is an internal customer (as is the case for 

software product development), then customer communications can be informal 
and there is no need to fit in with the customer™s ways of working. If custom 

software is being developed for an external customer, agreement has to be 

reached on more formal communication channels. If the customer is a govern-
ment agency, the software company must operate according to the agency™s 

policies and procedures, which are likely to be bureaucratic.3. Software size Small systems can be developed by a small team, which can get 

together in the same room to discuss progress and other management issues. Large 

systems usually need multiple development teams that may be  geographically 
distributed and in different companies. The project manager has to coordinate the 

activities of these teams and arrange for them to communicate with each other.4. Software type If the software being developed is a consumer product, formal 

records of project management decisions are unnecessary. On the other hand, if 
a safety-critical system is being developed, all project management decisions 

should be recorded and justified as these may affect the safety of the system.5. Organizational culture Some organizations have a culture that is based on 
 supporting and encouraging individuals, while others are group focused. Large 
organizations are often bureaucratic. Some organizations have a culture of 
 taking risks, whereas others are risk averse.6. Software development processes 
Agile processes typically try to operate with 
ﬁlightweightﬂ management. More formal processes require management 
 monitoring to ensure that the development team is following the defined process.
These factors mean that project managers in different organizations may work in quite different ways. However, a number of fundamental project management activ-
ities are common to all organizations:1. Project planning Project managers are responsible for planning, estimating, and scheduling project development and assigning people to tasks. They supervise 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜˜
