˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜Four types of security threats may arise:1.
 Interception threats that allow an attacker to gain access to an asset. So, a 
 possible threat to the Mentcare system might be a situation where an attacker gains access to the records of an individual patient.2. Interruption threats that allow an attacker to make part of the system 
 unavailable. Therefore, a possible threat might be a denial-of-service attack on a system 

database server.3. Modification threats that allow an attacker to tamper with a system asset. In the 
Mentcare system, a modification threat would be where an attacker alters or 

destroys a patient record.4. Fabrication threats that allow an attacker to insert false information into a sys-
tem. This is perhaps not a credible threat in the Mentcare system but would 

certainly be a threat in a banking system, where false transactions might be 

added to the system that transfers money to the perpetrator™s bank account.The controls that you might put in place to enhance system security are based on the fundamental notions of avoidance, detection, and recovery:1. Vulnerability avoidance Controls that are intended to ensure that attacks are 
unsuccessful. The strategy here is to design the system so that security problems 
are avoided. For example, sensitive military systems are not connected to the 

Internet so that external access is more difficult. You should also think of 

encryption as a control based on avoidance. Any unauthorized access to 

encrypted data means that the attacker cannot read the encrypted data. It is 

expensive and time consuming to crack strong encryption.2. Attack detection and neutralization Controls that are intended to detect and 

repel attacks. These controls involve including functionality in a system that 

monitors its operation and checks for unusual patterns of activity. If these 
Figure 13.4 Examples of security terminologyTermExampleAssetThe record of each patient who is receiving or has received treatment.AttackAn impersonation of an authorized user.ControlA password checking system that disallows user passwords that are proper names 
or words that are normally included in a dictionary.ExposurePotential financial loss from future patients who do not seek treatment because 
they do not trust the clinic to maintain their data. Financial loss from legal action 
by the sports star. Loss of reputation.ThreatAn unauthorized user will gain access to the system by guessing the credentials 
(login name and password) of an authorized user.VulnerabilityAuthentication is based on a password system that does not require strong 
passwords. Users can then set easily guessable passwords.