˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜They work independently to find errors, omissions, and departures from stand-ards. Reviewers may supply written comments on the software if they cannot 
attend the review meeting.2. The review meeting During the review meeting, an author of the document or 
program being reviewed should ﬁwalk throughﬂ the document with the review 
team. The review itself should be relatively shortŠtwo hours at most. One team 
member should chair the review, and another should formally record all review 
decisions and actions to be taken. During the review, the chair is responsible for 
ensuring that all submitted comments are considered. The review chair should 

sign a record of comments and actions agreed during the review.3. Post-review activities After a review meeting has ended, the issues and prob-
lems raised during the review must be addressed. Actions may involve fixing 
software bugs, refactoring software so that it conforms to quality standards, or 

rewriting documents. Sometimes the problems discovered in a quality review 

are such that a management review is also necessary to decide if more resources 
should be made available to correct them. After changes have been made, the 
review chair may check that all the review comments have been taken into 

account. Sometimes a further review will be required to check that the changes 
made cover all of the previous review comments.Review teams should normally have a core of three to four people who are selected 
as principal reviewers. One member should be an experienced designer who will take 

the responsibility for making significant technical decisions. The principal reviewers 

may invite other project members, such as the designers of related subsystems, to 

contribute to the review. They may not be involved in reviewing the whole document 

but should concentrate on those sections that affect their work. Alternatively, the 

review team may circulate the document and ask for written comments from a broad 

spectrum of project members. The project manager need not be involved in the 

review, unless problems are anticipated that require changes to the project plan.The processes suggested for reviews assume that the review team has a face-to-face meeting to discuss the software or documents they are reviewing. However, 

project teams are now often distributed, sometimes across countries or continents, so 
it is impractical for team members to meet face to face. Remote reviewing can be 
supported using shared documents where each review team member can annotate 

the document with their comments. Face-to-face meetings may be impossible 
Roles in the inspection processWhen program inspection was established at IBM (Fagan, 1986), a number of formal roles were defined for 
members of the inspection team. These included moderator, code reader, and scribe. Other users of inspections 
have modified these roles, but it is generally accepted that an inspection should involve the code author, an 
inspector, and a scribe and should be chaired by a moderator.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/qm-roles