˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜be four fundamental architectural views, which can be linked through common use 
cases or scenarios (Figure 6.3). He suggests the following views:1. A logical view, 
which shows the key abstractions in the system as objects or 
object classes. It should be possible to relate the system requirements to entities 
in this logical view.2. A process view, which shows how, at runtime, the system is composed of inter-
acting processes. This view is useful for making judgments about non-func
-tional  system characteristics such as performance and availability.3. A development view, which shows how the software is decomposed for develop-
ment; that is, it shows the breakdown of the software into components that are 

implemented by a single developer or development team. This view is useful for 

software managers and programmers.4. A physical view, which shows the system hardware and how software compo-
nents are distributed across the processors in the system. This view is useful for  systems engineers planning a system deployment.Hofmeister et al. (Hofmeister, Nord, and Soni 2000) suggest the use of similar views 
but add to this the notion of a conceptual view. This view is an abstract view of the system 

that can be the basis for decomposing high-level requirements into more detailed specifi-cations, help engineers make decisions about components that can be reused, and repre-sent a product line (discussed in Chapter 15) rather than a single system. Figure 
6.1, which 
describes the architecture of a packing robot, is an example of a conceptual system view.In practice, conceptual views of a system™s architecture are almost always devel-oped during the design process. They are used to explain the system architecture to 
stakeholders and to inform architectural decision making. During the design process, 
some of the other views may also be developed when different aspects of the system 
are discussed, but it is rarely necessary to develop a complete description from all 
perspectives. It may also be possible to associate Architectural patterns, discussed in 
the next section, with the different views of a system.SystemarchitectureLogicalviewPhysicalviewProcessviewDevelopmentviewFigure 6.3 Architectural views 