˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜Consider the following scenario as an illustration of application system integration. 
A large organization intends to develop a procurement system that allows staff to 
place orders from their desk. By introducing this system across the organization, the 
company estimates that it can save $5 million per year. By centralizing buying, the 
new procurement system can ensure that orders are always made from suppliers who 
offer the best prices and should reduce the administration associated with orders. 

As˜with manual systems, the system involves choosing the goods available from a 

supplier, creating an order, having the order approved, sending the order to a sup-
plier, receiving the goods, and confirming that payment should be made.The company has a legacy ordering system that is used by a central procurement 
office. This order processing software is integrated with an existing invoicing and 

delivery system. To create the new ordering system, the legacy system is integrated 

with a web-based e-commerce platform and an email system that handles commu-
nications with users. The structure of the final procurement system is shown in 

Figure 15.14.
This procurement system should be a clientŒserver system with standard web 
browsing and email systems used on the client. On the server, the e-commerce 

platform has to integrate with the existing ordering system through an adaptor. The 

e-commerce system has its own format for orders, confirmations of delivery, and 

so forth, and these have to be converted into the format used by the ordering sys
-
tem. The e-commerce system uses the email system to send notifications to users, 

but the ordering system was never designed for this purpose. Therefore, another 

adaptor has to be written to convert the notifications from the ordering system into 

email messages.Months, sometimes years, of implementation effort can be saved, and the time to 
develop and deploy a system can be drastically reduced by integrating existing appli
-
cation systems. The procurement system described above was implemented and 

deployed in a very large company in nine months. It had originally been estimated 
that it would take three years to develop a procurement system in Java that could be 
integrated with the legacy ordering system.ClientWeb browser
Email systemServerE-commercesystemOrdering andinvoicing systemEmail systemAdaptorAdaptorFigure 15.14 An integrated procurement 
system 