˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
ConfirmdetentiondecisionFind secureplaceAdmit tohospitalTransfer to
police station
Transfer to
secure hospitalInform next
of kinInformsocial careInformpatient ofrightsUpdateregister
«system»
Admissionssystem«system»Mentcare«system»MentcareRecorddetentiondecision[dangerous][not available][notdangerous][available]Figure 5.2 A process model of involuntary detentionthese relations may affect the requirements and design of the system being defined 

and so must be taken into account. Therefore, simple context models are used along 
with other models, such as business process models. These describe human and auto
-
mated processes in which particular software systems are used.UML activity diagrams may be used to show the business processes in which 
systems are used. Figure 5.2 is a UML activity diagram that shows where the 

Mentcare system is used in an important mental health care processŠinvoluntary 

detention.Sometimes, patients who are suffering from mental health problems may be a 
danger to others or to themselves. They may therefore have to be detained against 
their will in a hospital so that treatment can be administered. Such detention is sub-
ject to strict legal safeguardsŠfor example, the decision to detain a patient must be 
regularly reviewed so that people are not held indefinitely without good reason. One 
critical function of the Mentcare system is to ensure that such safeguards are imple
-
mented and that the rights of patients are respected.UML activity diagrams show the activities in a process and the flow of control from one activity to another. The start of a process is indicated by a filled circle, the 
end by a filled circle inside another circle. Rectangles with round corners represent 
activities, that is, the specific subprocesses that must be carried out. You may include 
objects in activity charts. Figure 5.2 shows the systems that are used to support dif-
ferent subprocesses within the involuntary detection process. I have shown that these 

are separate systems by using the UML stereotype feature where the type of entity in 

the box between chevrons is shown.Arrows represent the flow of work from one activity to another, and a solid bar 
indicates activity coordination. When the flow from more than one activity leads to a 