message, carries out the computation, and, upon completion, sends a reply, as a mes
-sage, to the requesting service. This service then parses the reply to extract the 

required information. Unlike software components, services do not use remote 
 procedure or method calls to access functionality associated with other services.When you intend to use a web service, you need to know where the service is located 
(its Uniform Resource IdentifierŠURI) and the details of its interface. These details are 

provided in a service description that is written in an XML-based language called WSDL 

(Web Service Description Language). The WSDL specification defines three aspects of 

a Web service: what the service does, how it communicates, and where to find it:
1. The ﬁwhatﬂ part of a WSDL document, called an interface, specifies what oper-
ations the service supports and defines the format of the messages sent and 

received by the service.
2. The ﬁhowﬂ part of a WSDL document, called a binding, maps the abstract inter
-face to a concrete set of protocols. The binding specifies the technical details of 

how to communicate with a Web service.
3. The ﬁwhereﬂ part of a WSDL document describes the location of a specific Web 

service implementation (its endpoint).The WSDL conceptual model (Figure 
18.4) shows the elements of a service 
description. Each element is expressed in XML and may be provided in separate 

files. These elements are:
1.
 An introductory part that usually defines the XML namespaces used and that 
may include a documentation section providing additional information about 

the service.2.
 An optional description of the types used in the messages exchanged by the service.
3.
 A description of the service interface, that is, the operations that the service 

provides for other services or users.
4. A description of the input and output messages processed by the service.5. A description of the binding used by the service, that is, the messaging protocol 

that will be used to send and receive messages. The default is SOAP, but other 
IntroAbstract interface
ConcreteimplementationWSDL service definitionXML namespace declarationsType declarations

Interface declarations

Message declarationsBinding declarations
Endpoint declarationsFigure 18.4  Organization of a WSDL 
specification ˜˚˛˝˚˜˜˜
˜˝˘ˇ
˜˜
