˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
are a consequence of individual carelessness or reckless behavior. People who 
adopt this approach believe that human errors can be reduced by threats of 
 disciplinary action, more stringent procedures, retraining, and so on. Their view 

is that the error is the fault of the individual responsible for making the mistake.2. The systems approach The basic assumption is that people are fallible and will make 

mistakes. People make mistakes because they are under pressure from high work-
loads, because of poor training, or because of inappropriate system design. Good 

systems should recognize the possibility of human error and include barriers and 

safeguards that detect human errors and allow the system to recover before failure 

occurs. When a failure does occur, the best way to avoid its recurrence is to understand 

how and why the system defenses did not trap the error. Blaming and punishing the 

person who triggered the failure does not improve long-term system safety.I believe that the systems approach is the right one and that systems engineers 
should assume that human errors will occur during system operation. Therefore, to 

improve the resilience of a system, designers have to think about the defenses and 

barriers to human error that could be part of a system. They should also think about 

whether these barriers should be built into the technical components of the system. 

If not, they could be part of the processes, procedures, and guidelines for using the 

system. For example, two operators may be required to check critical system inputs.The barriers and safeguards that protect against human errors may be technical or 
sociotechnical. For example, code to validate all inputs is a technical defense; an approval 

procedure for critical system updates that needs two people to confirm the update is a 

sociotechnical defense. Using diverse barriers means that shared vulnerabilities are less 

likely and that a user error is more likely to be trapped before system failure.In general, you should use redundancy and diversity to create a set of defensive 
layers (Figure 14.5), where each layer uses a different approach to deter attackers or 
to trap component failures or human errors. Dark blue barriers are software checks; 
light blue barriers are checks carried out by people.As an example of this approach to defense in depth, some of the checks for con
-troller errors that may be part of an air traffic control system include:1. A conflict alert warning as part of an air traffic control system When a control-ler instructs an aircraft to change its speed or altitude, the system extrapolates its 
trajectory to see if it intersects with any other aircraft. If so, it sounds an alarm.2. Formalized recording procedures for air traffic management The same ATC 

system may have a clearly defined procedure setting out how to record the con-
trol instructions that have been issued to aircraft. These procedures help control-
lers check if they have issued the instruction correctly and make the information 

visible to others for checking.3. Collaborative checking Air traffic control involves a team of controllers who 

constantly monitor each other™s work. When a controller makes a mistake, oth-
ers usually detect and correct it before an incident occurs.