˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜Project planning is one of the most important jobs of a software project manager. As a manager, you have to break down the work into parts and assign them to project 
team members, anticipate problems that might arise, and prepare tentative solutions 
to those problems. The project plan, which is created at the start of a project and 

updated as the project progresses, is used to show how the work will be done and to 
assess progress on the project.Project planning takes place at three stages in a project life cycle:1. At the proposal stage, when you are bidding for a contract to develop or provide 
a software system. You need a plan at this stage to help you decide if you have 
the resources to complete the work and to work out the price that you should 
quote to a customer.2. During the project startup phase, when you have to plan who will work on the 

project, how the project will be broken down into increments, how resources 

will be allocated across your company, and so on. Here, you have more infor
-
mation than at the proposal stage, and you can therefore refine the initial effort 
estimates that you have prepared.3. Periodically throughout the project, when you update your plan to reflect new 
information about the software and its development. You learn more about the 
system being implemented and the capabilities of your development team. As 
software requirements change, the work breakdown has to be altered and the 

schedule extended. This information allows you to make more accurate esti-
mates of how long the work will take.Planning at the proposal stage is inevitably speculative, as you do not have a 
complete set of requirements for the software to be developed. You have to respond 

to a call for proposals based on a high-level description of the software functional-
ity that is required. A plan is often a required part of a proposal, so you have to 

produce a credible plan for carrying out the work. If you win the contract, you then 

have to  re-plan the project, taking into account changes since the proposal was 
made and new information about the system, the development process, and the 

development team.When you are bidding for a contract, you have to work out the price that you 
will propose to the customer for developing the software. As a starting point for 

calculating this price, you need to draw up an estimate of your costs for complet-
ing the project work. Estimation involves working out how much effort is 

required to complete each activity and, from this step, calculating the total cost 

of activities. You should always calculate software costs objectively, with the 

aim of accurately predicting the cost of developing the software. Once you 

have a reasonable estimate of the likely costs, you are then in a position to calcu-
late the price that you will quote to the customer. As I discuss in the next section, 

many factors influence the pricing of a software projectŠit is not simply cost 

plus profit.