˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜˜The designers of the Airbus system have tried to achieve diversity in a number of different ways:1. The primary flight control computers use a different processor from the second-ary flight control systems.2. The chipset that is used in each channel in the primary and secondary systems is 
supplied by a different manufacturer.3. The software in the secondary flight control systems provides critical function-
ality onlyŠit is less complex than the primary software.4. The software for each channel in both the primary and the secondary systems is 
developed using different programming languages and by different teams.5. Different programming languages are used in the secondary and primary systems.As I discuss in Section 
11.3.4, these do not guarantee diversity but they reduce 
the probability of common failures in different channels.˜Self-monitoring architectures are examples of systems in which multiversion 
 programming is used to provide software redundancy and diversity. This notion of 
multiversion programming has been derived from hardware systems where the 

notion of triple modular redundancy (TMR) has been used for many years to build 
systems that are tolerant of hardware failures (Figure 11.9).In a TMR system, the hardware unit is replicated three (or sometimes more) 
times. The output from each unit is passed to an output comparator that is usually 
implemented as a voting system. This system compares all of its inputs, and, if two 
or more are the same, then that value is output. If one of the units fails and does not 
produce the same output as the other units, its output is ignored. A fault manager 

may try to repair the faulty unit automatically, but if this is impossible, the system is 
automatically reconfigured to take the unit out of service. The system then continues 
to function with two working units.This approach to fault tolerance relies on most hardware failures being the result 
of component failure rather than design faults. The components are therefore likely A2A1A3OutputselectorInputFigure 11.9 Triple modular redundancy