˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜
3. Additive composition This occurs when two or more components are put together 
(added) to create a new component, which combines their functionality. The ﬁpro-
videsﬂ interface and ﬁrequiresﬂ interface of the new component are a combination 

of the corresponding interfaces in components A and B. The components are 

called separately through the external interface of the composed component and 

may be called in any order. A and B are not dependent and do not call each other. 

This type of composition may be used with embedded or service components.You might use all the forms of component composition when creating a system. In all cases, you may have to write ﬁglue codeﬂ that links the components. For exam-
ple, for sequential composition, the output of component A typically becomes the 

input to component B. You need intermediate statements that call component A, 

collect the result, and then call component B, with that result as a parameter. When 

one component calls another, you may need to introduce an intermediate component 
that ensures that the ﬁprovidesﬂ interface and the ﬁrequiresﬂ interface are compatible.When you write new components especially for composition, you should design the 
interfaces of these components so that they are compatible with other components in 

the system. You can therefore easily compose these components into a  single unit. 
However, when components are developed independently for reuse, you will often be 

faced with interface incompatibilities. This means that the interfaces of the components 

that you wish to compose are not the same. Three types of incompatibility can occur:1. Parameter incompatibility The operations on each side of the interface have the 
same name, but their parameter types or the number of parameters are different. In 

Figure 16.
11, the location parameter returned by addressFinder is incompatible 
with the parameters required by the displayMap and printMap methods in mapDB.2. Operation incompatibility The names of the operations in the provides and 

ﬁrequiresﬂ interfaces are different. This is a further incompatibility between the 
components shown in Figure 16.11.3. Operation incompleteness The ﬁprovidesﬂ interface of a component is a subset 
of the ﬁrequiresﬂ interface of another component, or vice versa.(1)AABBAB(2)(3)Figure 16.10  Types of component composition 