˘˜˚˜˙˘˜˘˘˘
sprints, that is, how much of the backlog could be covered in a single sprint. This 
leads to the creation of a sprint backlogŠthe work to be done during that sprint. The 
team self-organizes to decide who will work on what, and the sprint begins.During the sprint, the team holds short daily meetings (Scrums) to review pro-gress and, where necessary, to re-prioritize work. During the Scrum, all team mem-
bers share information, describe their progress since the last meeting, bring up 

problems that have arisen, and state what is planned for the following day. Thus, 

everyone on the team knows what is going on and, if problems arise, can re-plan 

short-term work to cope with them. Everyone participates in this short-term plan-
ning; there is no top-down direction from the ScrumMaster.The daily interactions among Scrum teams may be coordinated using a Scrum 
board. This is an office whiteboard that includes information and post-it notes about 
the Sprint backlog, work done, unavailability of staff, and so on. This is a shared 

resource for the whole team, and anyone can change or move items on the board. It 
means that any team member can, at a glance, see what others are doing and what 
work remains to be done.At the end of each sprint, there is a review meeting, which involves the whole 
team. This meeting has two purposes. First, it is a means of process improvement. 
The team reviews the way they have worked and reflects on how things could have 

been done better. Second, it provides input on the product and the product state for 
the product backlog review that precedes the next sprint.While the ScrumMaster is not formally a project manager, in practice ScrumMasters 
take this role in many organizations that have a conventional management structure. 

They report on progress to senior management and are involved in longer-term plan
-
ning and project budgeting. They may be involved in project administration (agreeing 

on holidays for staff, liaising with HR, etc.) and hardware and software purchases.In various Scrum success stories (Schatz and Abdelshafi 2005; Mulder and van Vliet 2008; Bellouiti 2009), the things that users like about the Scrum method are:1. The product is broken down into a set of manageable and understandable chunks that stakeholders can relate to.2. Unstable requirements do not hold up progress.3. The whole team has visibility of everything, and consequently team communi-
cation and morale are improved.4.
 Customers see on-time delivery of increments and gain feedback on how the 

product works. They are not faced with last-minute surprises when a team 

announces that software will not be delivered as expected.5. Trust between customers and developers is established, and a positive culture is 
created in which everyone expects the project to succeed.Scrum, as originally designed, was intended for use with co-located teams where all team members could get together every day in stand-up meetings. However, 

much software development now involves distributed teams, with team members 

located in different places around the world. This allows companies to take advantage 
