˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜3. Platform-specific models (PSM) PSMs are transformations of the platform- independent model with a separate PSM for each application platform. In 
 principle, there may be layers of PSM, with each layer adding some platform-specific detail. So, the first level PSM could be middleware-specific but 
 database-independent. When a specific database has been chosen, a database-

specific PSM can then be generated.Model-based engineering allows engineers to think about systems at a high 
level of abstraction, without concern for the details of their implementation. This 

reduces the likelihood of errors, speeds up the design and implementation process, 

and allows for the creation of reusable, platform-independent application models. 

By using powerful tools, system implementations can be generated for different 

platforms from the same model. Therefore, to adapt the system to some new plat-
form technology, you write a model translator for that platform. When this is 

available, all platform-independent models can then be rapidly re-hosted on the 

new platform.Fundamental to MDA is the notion that transformations between models can be defined and applied automatically by software tools, as illustrated in Figure 
5.19. 
This diagram also shows a final level of automatic transformation where a transfor-
mation is applied to the PSM to generate the executable code that will run on the 

designated software platform. Therefore, in principle at least, executable software 

can be generated from a high-level system model.In practice, completely automated translation of models to code is rarely possi-ble. The translation of high-level CIM to PIM models remains a research problem, 

and for production systems, human intervention, illustrated using a stick figure in 

Figure 5.
19, is normally required. A particularly difficult problem for automated 

model transformation is the need to link the concepts used in different CIMS. For 

example, the concept of a role in a security CIM that includes role-driven access 

control may have to be mapped onto the concept of a staff member in a hospital 

CIM. Only a person who understands both security and the hospital environment can 

make this mapping.Platformspecific modelPlatformindependentmodelExecutablecodeTranslator
Translator
Translator
Domain specificguidelinesPlatformspecific pattern
sand rulesLanguagespecificpatternsComputationindependentmodelFigure 5.19 MDA transformations