˜˜˚˛ˇ˜˜˜
˜˜˜
For example, imagine that an organization is taking on a project in a domain in which 
it has little previous experience. The project client has not defined the process to be used or 
allowed time in the project schedule for significant risk analysis. A new development team 

must be put together to implement this system. The organization has recently put in place 

a process improvement program and has been rated as a Level 2 organization according to 

the SEI capability assessment, as discussed in Chapter 26 (web chapter). These character-
istics lead to estimates of the ratings used in exponent calculation as follows:1. Precedentedness, rated low (4). This is a new project for the organization.2. Development flexibility, rated very high (1). There is no client involvement in the development process, so there are few externally imposed changes.3. Architecture/risk resolution, rated very low (5). There has been no risk analysis 
carried out.4. Team cohesion, rated nominal (3). This is a new team, so there is no information 
available on cohesion.5. Process maturity, rated nominal (3). Some process control is in place.The sum of these values is 16. You then calculate the final value of the exponent 
by dividing this sum by 100 and adding 0.01 to the result. The adjusted value of B is therefore 1.17.The overall effort estimate is refined using an extensive set of 17 product, pro-cess, and organizational attributes (see breakout box) rather than the seven attributes 

used in the early design model. You can estimate values for these attributes because 
you have more information about the software itself, its non-functional require-
ments, the development team, and the development process.Scale factorExplanationArchitecture/risk resolutionReflects the extent of risk analysis carried out. Very low means little analysis; 
extra-high means a complete and thorough risk analysis.Development flexibilityReflects the degree of flexibility in the development process. Very low means 
a prescribed process is used; extra-high means that the client sets only 
general goals.PrecedentednessReflects the previous experience of the organization with this type of project. 
Very low means no previous experience; extra-high means that the 
organization is completely familiar with this application domain.Team cohesionReflects how well the development team knows each other and works 
together. Very low means very difficult interactions; extra-high means an 
integrated and effective team with no communication problems.Process maturityReflects the process maturity of the organization as discussed in web  
chapter 26. The computation of this value depends on the CMM Maturity 
Questionnaire, but an estimate can be achieved by subtracting the CMM 
process maturity level from 5.Figure 23.12 Scale factors used in the 
exponent computation 
in the post-architecture 
model