˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜a private workspace before making changes to the system. They may wish to build a 
version of a system for testing in their development environment before committing 

changes that they have made to the version control system. This involves using local 

build tools that use checked-out versions of components in the private workspace.2. The build server, which is used to build definitive, executable versions of the 
system. This server maintains the definitive versions of a system. All of the 

system developers check in code to the version control system on the build 

server for system building.3. The target environment, which is the platform on which the system executes. This 

may be the same type of computer that is used for the development and build sys-
tems. However, for real-time and embedded systems, the target environment is often 

smaller and simpler than the development environment (e.g., a cell phone). For large 

systems, the target environment may include databases and other application systems 

that cannot be installed on development machines. In these situations, it is not possi-
ble to build and test the system on the development computer or on the build server.Agile methods recommend that very frequent system builds should be carried 
out, with automated testing used to discover software problems. Frequent builds are 
part of a process of continuous integration as shown in Figure 25.12. In keeping with 
the agile methods notion of making many small changes, continuous integration 

involves rebuilding the mainline frequently, after small source code changes have 

been made. The steps in continuous integration are:1.
 Extract the mainline system from the VC system into the developer™s private 
workspace.2. Build the system and run automated tests to ensure that the built system passes 
all tests. If not, the build is broken, and you should inform whoever checked in 
the last baseline system. He or she is responsible for repairing the problem.3. Make the changes to the system components.4. Build the system in a private workspace and rerun system tests. If the tests fail, 
continue editing.Development systemDevelopmenttoolsPrivate workspaceBuild serverVersion
managementsystemcoVersion management and build server
Target system
Executable systemTarget platform
Check-out(co)Check-inFigure 25.11  Development, build, and 
target platforms