˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜
˜˜
Subsystem engineering involves designing and building the system™s hardware and 
software components. For some types of systems, such as spacecraft, all hardware and 
software components may be designed and built during the development process. 

However, in most systems, some components are bought rather than developed. It is 

usually much cheaper to buy existing products than to develop special-purpose compo
-
nents. However, if you buy large off-the-shelf systems, such as ERP systems, there is a 

significant cost in configuring these systems for use in their operational environment.Subsystems are usually developed in parallel. When problems that cut across sub-system boundaries are encountered, a system modification request must be made. 

Where systems involve extensive hardware engineering, making modifications after 
manufacturing has started is usually very expensive. Often ﬁworkaroundsﬂ that com
-
pensate for the problem must be found. These workarounds usually involve software 

changes to implement new requirements.During systems integration, you take the independently developed subsystems 
and put them together to make up a complete system. This integration can be 

achieved using a ﬁbig bangﬂ approach, where all the subsystems are integrated at the 
same time. However, for technical and managerial reasons, an incremental integra
-
tion process where subsystems are integrated one at a time is the best approach:1.
 It is usually impossible to schedule the development of all the subsystems so 
that they are all finished at the same time.2. Incremental integration reduces the cost of error location. If many subsystems 

are simultaneously integrated, an error that arises during testing may be in any of 

these subsystems. When a single subsystem is integrated with an already work-
ing system, errors that occur are probably in the newly integrated subsystem or 

in the interactions between the existing subsystems and the new subsystem.As an increasing number of systems are built by integrating off-the-shelf hardware 
and software application systems, the distinction between implementation and integra-
tion is becoming blurred. In some cases, there is no need to develop new hardware or 

software. Essentially, systems integration is the implementation phase of the system.During and after the integration process, the system is tested. This testing should 
focus on testing the interfaces between components and the behavior of the system as a 

whole. Inevitably, testing also reveals problems with individual subsystems that have to 

be repaired. Testing takes a long time, and a common problem in system development 

is that the testing team may run out of either budget or time. This problem can lead to the 

delivery of error-prone systems that need be repaired after they have been deployed.Subsystem faults that are a consequence of invalid assumptions about other subsys-tems are often exposed during system integration. This may lead to disputes between 

the contractors responsible for implementing different subsystems. When problems 

are discovered in subsystem interaction, the contractors may argue about which sub-
system is faulty. Negotiations on how to solve the problems can take weeks or months.The final stage of the system development process is system delivery and deploy-ment. The software is installed on the hardware and is readied for operation. This˜may 
