˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜Peer-to-peer (p2p) systems (Oram 2001) are decentralized systems in which com
-putations may be carried out by any node on the network. In principle at least, no 
distinctions are made between clients and servers. In peer-to-peer applications, the 
overall system is designed to take advantage of the computational power and storage 
available across a potentially huge network of computers. The standards and proto-
cols that enable communications across the nodes are embedded in the application 
itself, and each node must run a copy of that application.Peer-to-peer technologies have mostly been used for personal rather than busi-ness systems. The fact that there are no central servers means that these systems are 
harder to monitor; therefore, a higher level of communication privacy is possible.For example, file-sharing systems based on the BitTorrent protocol are widely used 
to exchange files on users™ PCs. Private instant messaging systems, such as ICQ and 

Jabber, provide direct communications between users without an intermediate server. 

Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer payments system using the Bitcoin electronic currency. Freenet 

is a decentralized database that has been designed to make it easier to publish informa-tion anonymously and to make it difficult for authorities to suppress this information.Other p2p systems have been developed where privacy is not the principal 
requirement. Voice over IP (VoIP) phone services, such as Viber, rely on peer-to-

peer communication between the parties involved in the phone call or conference. 

SETI@home is a long-running project that processes data from radio telescopes on 

home PCs in order to search for indications of extraterrestrial life. In these systems, 

the advantage of the p2p model is that a central server is not a processing bottleneck.
Peer-to-peer systems have also been used by businesses to harness the power in their PC networks (McDougall 2000). Intel and Boeing have both implemented p2p 
systems for computationally intensive applications. Such systems take advantage of 

unused processing capacity on local computers. Instead of buying expensive high-
performance hardware, engineering computations can be run overnight when desk-
top computers are unused. Businesses also make extensive use of commercial p2p 
systems, such as messaging and VoIP systems.In principle, every node in a p2p network could be aware of every other node. 
Nodes could connect to and exchange data directly with any other node in the network. 

In practice, this is impossible unless the network has only a few members. Consequently, 

nodes are usually organized into ﬁlocalities,ﬂ with some nodes acting as bridges to 

other node localities. Figure 17.14 shows this decentralized p2p architecture.In a decentralized architecture, the nodes in the network are not simply functional elements but are also communications switches that can route data and control sig-
nals from one node to another. For example, assume that Figure 17.14 represents a 
decentralized, document-management system. A consortium of researchers uses this 
system to share documents. Each member of the consortium maintains his or her 

own document store. However, when a document is retrieved, the node retrieving 

that document also makes it available to other nodes.If someone needs a document that is stored somewhere on the network, they issue a search command, which is sent to nodes in their ﬁlocality.ﬂ These nodes check 

whether they have the document and, if so, return it to the requestor. If they do not 
have it, they route the search to other nodes. Therefore if n1 issues a search for a 
