Figure 18.
2 illustrates the structure of a service-oriented architecture. Service provid
-ers design and implement services and specify the interface to these services. They also 
publish information about these services in an accessible registry. Service requestors 

(sometimes called service clients) who wish to make use of a service discover the speci
-
fication of that service and locate the service provider. They can then bind their applica
-
tion to that specific service and communicate with it, using standard service protocols.
The development and use of internationally agreed standards is fundamental to 
SOA. As a result, service-oriented architectures have not suffered from the incompat
-
ibilities that normally arise with technical innovations, where different suppliers 

maintain their proprietary version of the technology. Figure 
18.3 shows the stack of 

key standards that have been established to support web services.
Web service protocols cover all aspects of service-oriented architectures, from the 
basic mechanisms for service information exchange (SOAP) to programming language 

standards (WS-BPEL). These standards are all based on XML, a human and machine-

readable notation that allows the definition of structured data where text is tagged with 

a meaningful identifier. XML has a range of supporting technologies, such as XSD for 

schema definition, which are used to extend and manipulate XML descriptions. Erl (Erl 

2004) provides a good summary of XML technologies and their role in web services.
Briefly, the fundamental standards for service-oriented architectures are:
1. SOAP This is a message interchange standard that supports communication 
between services. It defines the essential and optional components of messages 
Transport (HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, ...)
Messaging (SOAP)
Service definition (UDDI, WSDL)
Process (WS-BPEL)Support (WS-Security, WS-Addressing, ...)
XML technologies (XML, XSD, XSL
T, ....)Figure 18.3  Web 
service standards Serviceregistry
ServicerequestorServiceproviderServiceFindPublishBind (SOAP)
(WSDL)Figure 18.2 Service-oriented architecture ˜˚˛˝˚˜˜˜
˜˝˘ˇ
˜˜
