˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Ideally, objective assessment should be used to inform decisions about what to do 
with a legacy system. However, in many cases, decisions are not really objective but 
are based on organizational or political considerations. For example, if two businesses 

merge, the most politically powerful partner will usually keep its systems and scrap 

the other company™s systems. If senior management in an organization decides to 

move to a new hardware platform, then this may require applications to be 

replaced. If no budget is available for system transformation in a particular year, 

then system maintenance may be continued, even though this will result in higher 
long-term costs.†
Software maintenance is the general process of changing a system after it has 

been delivered. The term is usually applied to custom software, where separate 

development groups are involved before and after delivery. The changes made to 

the software may be simple changes to correct coding errors, more extensive 

changes to correct design errors, or significant enhancements to correct specifica
-
tion errors or to accommodate new requirements. Changes are implemented by 

modifying existing system components and, where necessary, by adding new 

components to the system.FactorQuestionsUnderstandabilityHow difficult is it to understand the source code of the current system? How 
complex are the control structures that are used? Do variables have 
meaningful names that reflect their function?DocumentationWhat system documentation is available? Is the documentation complete, 
consistent, and current?DataIs there an explicit data model for the system? To what extent is data duplicated 

across files? Is the data used by the system up to date and consistent?PerformanceIs the performance of the application adequate? Do performance problems 
have a significant effect on system users?Programming languageAre modern compilers available for the programming language used to 
develop the system? Is the programming language still used for new system 
development?Configuration managementAre all versions of all parts of the system managed by a configuration 
management system? Is there an explicit description of the versions of 
components that are used in the current system?Test dataDoes test data for the system exist? Is there a record of regression tests 
carried out when new features have been added to the system?Personnel skillsAre there people available who have the skills to maintain the application? 
Are there people available who have experience with the system?Figure 9.11 Factors used in application 
assessment