˜˜˚˜˜˜˜
˜˜


Use cases are a way of describing interactions between users and a system using a graphical model and structured text. They were first introduced in the Objectory 

method (Jacobsen et al. 1993) and have now become a fundamental feature of the 

Unified Modeling Language (UML). In their simplest form, a use case identifies the 
actors involved in an interaction and names the type of interaction. You then add 

additional information describing the interaction with the system. The additional 

information may be a textual description or one or more graphical models such as 
the UML sequence or state charts (see Chapter 5).Use cases are documented using a high-level use case diagram. The set of use 
cases represents all of the possible interactions that will be described in the system 
requirements. Actors in the process, who may be human or other systems, are repre
-
sented as stick figures. Each class of interaction is represented as a named ellipse. 
Lines link the actors with the interaction. Optionally, arrowheads may be added to 
lines to show how the interaction is initiated. This is illustrated in Figure 
4.15, which 

shows some of the use cases for the Mentcare system.Use cases identify the individual interactions between the system and its users or other systems. Each use case should be documented with a textual description. These 

can then be linked to other models in the UML that will develop the scenario in more 
detail. For example, a brief description of the Setup Consultation use case from 

Figure 4.15 might be:Setup consultation allows two or more doctors, working in different offices, to 
view the same patient record at the same time. One doctor initiates the consul-
tation by choosing the people involved from a dropdown menu of doctors who 
are online. The patient record is then displayed on their screens, but only the 
initiating doctor can edit the record. In addition, a text chat window is created NurseMedical receptionistManagerRegister
patientView
personal info.
View record
Generatereport
Export
statisticsDoctorEdit recordSetupconsultationFigure 4.15 Use cases for the Mentcare system