˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
System modeling is the process of developing abstract models of a system, with each model presenting a different view or perspective of that system. System modeling 

now usually means representing a system using some kind of graphical notation 

based on diagram types in the Unified Modeling Language (UML). However, it is 
also possible to develop formal (mathematical) models of a system, usually as a 

detailed system specification. I cover graphical modeling using the UML here, and 
formal modeling is briefly discussed in Chapter 10.Models are used during the requirements engineering process to help derive the detailed requirements for a system, during the design process to describe the system 

to engineers implementing the system, and after implementation to document the 

system™s structure and operation. You may develop models of both the existing sys-
tem and the system to be developed:1. Models of the existing system are used during requirements engineering. They help clarify what the existing system does, and they can be used to focus a stake-
holder discussion on its strengths and weaknesses.2.
 Models of the new system are used during requirements engineering to help 

explain the proposed requirements to other system stakeholders. Engineers use 
these models to discuss design proposals and to document the system for imple-
mentation. If you use a model-driven engineering process (Brambilla, Cabot, 

and Wimmer 2012), you can generate a complete or partial system implementa-
tion from system models.It is important to understand that a system model is not a complete representation of 
system. It purposely leaves out detail to make it easier to understand. A model is an 

abstraction of the system being studied rather than an alternative representation of that 

system. A representation of a system should maintain all the information about the entity 

being represented. An abstraction deliberately simplifies a system design and picks out 

the most salient characteristics. For example, the PowerPoint slides that accompany this 

book are an abstraction of the book™s key points. However, if the book were translated 
from English into Italian, this would be an alternative 
 representation
. The translator™s 
intention would be to maintain all the information as it is presented in English.You may develop different models to represent the system from different 
 perspectives. For example:1.
 An external perspective, where you model the context or environment of the 
system.2. An interaction perspective, where you model the interactions between a system 
and its environment, or between the components of a system.3. A structural perspective, where you model the organization of a system or the 
structure of the data processed by the system.4. A behavioral perspective, where you model the dynamic behavior of the system 
and how it responds to events.