˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜Figure 22.3 Examples of different types of riskRisk typePossible risksEstimation   
1.  The time required to develop the software is 
underestimated.   
2. The rate of defect repair is underestimated.   
3. The size of the software is underestimated.Organizational   
4.  The organization is restructured so that different 
management are responsible for the project.   
5.  Organizational financial problems force reductions in the 
project budget.People   
6. It is impossible to recruit staff with the skills required.   
7. Key staff are ill and unavailable at critical times.   
8. Required training for staff is not available.Requirements   
9.  Changes to requirements that require major design 
rework are proposed.10.  Customers fail to understand the impact of requirements 
changes.Technology11.  The database used in the system cannot process as many 
transactions per second as expected.12.  Faults in reusable software components have to be 
repaired before these components are reused.Tools13.  The code generated by software code generation tools is 
inefficient.14.  Software tools cannot work together in an integrated way.˘˘During the risk analysis process, you have to consider each identified risk and make 

a judgment about the probability and seriousness of that risk. There is no easy way to 
do so. You have to rely on your judgment and experience of previous projects and 
the problems that arose in them. It is not possible to make precise, numeric assess-
ment of the probability and seriousness of each risk. Rather, you should assign the 
risk to one of a number of bands:1.
 The probability of the risk might be assessed as insignificant, low, moderate, 
high, or very high.2. The effects of the risk might be assessed as catastrophic (threaten the survival of 
the project), serious (would cause major delays), tolerable (delays are within 

allowed contingency), or insignificant.You may then tabulate the results of this analysis process using a table 
ordered according to the seriousness of the risk. Figure 22.4 illustrates this for 

the risks that I have identified in Figure 22.3. Obviously, the assessment of 

probability and  seriousness is arbitrary here. To make this assessment, you need 
