˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜a system of systems. Some of the problems of SoS engineering apply to such small systems, but the real challenges emerge when the constituent systems are themselves 
large-scale systems.Much of the work in the area of systems of systems has come from the defense community. As the capability of software systems increased in the late 20th century, 

it became possible to coordinate and control previously independent military 
 systems, such as naval and ground-based air and ship defense systems. The system 
might include tens or hundreds of separate elements, with software systems keeping 

track of these elements and providing controllers with information that allows them 
to be deployed most effectively.This type of system of systems is outside the scope of a software engineering 
book. Instead, I focus here on systems of systems where the system elements are 

software systems rather than hardware such as aircraft, military vehicles, or radars. 
Systems of software systems are created by integrating separate software systems, 
and, at the time of writing, most software SoS include a relatively small number of 
separate systems. Each constituent system is usually a complex system in its own 

right. However, it is predicted that, over the next few years, the size of software SoS 

is likely to grow significantly as more and more systems are integrated to make use 
of the capabilities that they offer.Examples of systems of systems of software systems are:1. A cloud management system that handles local private cloud management and 

management of servers on public clouds such as Amazon and Microsoft.2.
 An online banking system that handles loan requests and that connects to a 

credit reference system provided by credit reference agencies to check the credit 
of applicants.3.
 An emergency information system that integrates information from police, 

ambulance, fire, and coast guard services about the assets available to deal with 
civil emergencies such as flooding and large-scale accidents.4.
 The digital learning environment (iLearn) that I introduced in Chapter 1. This system provides a range of learning support by integrating separate 

software systems such as Microsoft Office 365, virtual learning environ-
ments such as Moodle, simulation modeling tools, and content such as 

newspaper archives.Maier (Maier 1998) identified five essential characteristics of systems of systems:1. Operational independence of elements Parts of the system are not simply com-
ponents but can operate as useful systems in their own right. The systems within 
the SoS evolve independently.2. Managerial independence of elements Parts of the system are ﬁownedﬂ and man-
aged by different organizations or by different parts of a larger organization. 

Therefore different rules and policies apply to the management and evolution of 
