˘˜˚˝˙˘˜˘˘˘
I am not convinced that XP on its own is a practical agile method for most com-panies, but its most significant contribution is probably the set of agile development 
practices that it introduced to the community. I discuss the most important of these 
practices in this section.ˆˆSoftware requirements always change. To handle these changes, agile methods do not 

have a separate requirements engineering activity. Rather, they integrate requirements 

elicitation with development. To make this easier, the idea of ﬁuser storiesﬂ was devel-oped where a user story is a scenario of use that might be experienced by a system user.As far as possible, the system customer works closely with the development team 
and discusses these scenarios with other team members. Together, they develop a 

ﬁstory cardﬂ that briefly describes a story that encapsulates the customer needs. The 
development team then aims to implement that scenario in a future release of the 

software. An example of a story card for the Mentcare system is shown in Figure 3.5. 
This is a short description of a scenario for prescribing medication for a patient.User stories may be used in planning system iterations. Once the story cards have been developed, the development team breaks these down into tasks (Figure 3.6) and 
estimates the effort and resources required for implementing each task. This usually 
involves discussions with the customer to refine the requirements. The customer 

then prioritizes the stories for implementation, choosing those stories that can be 
Kate is a doctor who wishes to prescribe medication for a patient attending a clinic.The patient record is already displayed on her computer so she clicks on the
medication ˜eld and can select ‚current medication™, ‚new medication™ or ‚formulary™.
If she selects ‚current medication™, the system asks her to check the dose; If she
wants to change the dose, she enters the new dose then con˜rms the prescription.If she chooses ‚new medication™, the system assumes that she knows which
medication to prescribe. She types the ˜rst few letters of the drug name. The system

displays a list of possible drugs starting with these letters. She chooses the required

medication and the system responds by asking her to check that the medication
selected is correct. She enters the dose then con˜rms the prescription.If she chooses ‚formulary™, the system displays a search box for the approved
formulary. She can then search for the drug required. She selects a drug and is asked
to check that the medication is correct. She enters the dose then con˜rms theprescription.The system always checks that the dose is within the approved range. If it isn™t, Kate
is asked to change the dose.After Kate has con˜rmed the prescription, it will be displayed for checking. She eitherclicks ‚OK™ or ‚Change™. If she clicks ‚OK™, the prescription is recorded on the audit
database. If she clicks on ‚Change™, she reenters the ‚Prescribing medication™ process.
Prescribing medicationFigure 3.5 A  ﬁprescribing medicationﬂ story