˜˜˚ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜
Cookdo:run
generatorDonedo:buzzer on
for 5 secs.Waiting
Alarmdo:display
eventdo:check
statusCheckingTurntable
faultEmitter
faultDisabledOKTimeout
Time
Door openCancelOperationFigure 5.17 A state model of the 
Operation stateI have assumed that the sequence of actions in using the microwave is as follows:1. Select the power level (either half power or full power).2. Input the cooking time using a numeric keypad.3. Press Start and the food is cooked for the given time.For safety reasons, the oven should not operate when the door is open, and, on 
completion of cooking, a buzzer is sounded. The oven has a simple display that is 
used to display various alerts and warning messages.In UML state diagrams, rounded rectangles represent system states. They may 
include a brief description (following ﬁdoﬂ) of the actions taken in that state. The 

labeled arrows represent stimuli that force a transition from one state to another. You 

can indicate start and end states using filled circles, as in activity diagrams.From Figure 5.16, you can see that the system starts in a waiting state and 
responds initially to either the full-power or the half-power button. Users can change 
their minds after selecting one of these and may press the other button. The time is 

set and, if the door is closed, the Start button is enabled. Pushing this button starts the 
oven operation, and cooking takes place for the specified time. This is the end of the 
cooking cycle, and the system returns to the waiting state.The problem with state-based modeling is that the number of possible states 
increases rapidly. For large system models, therefore, you need to hide detail in the 
models. One way to do this is by using the notion of a ﬁsuperstateﬂ that encapsulates 
a number of separate states. This superstate looks like a single state on a high-level 
model but is then expanded to show more detail on a separate diagram. To illustrate 

this concept, consider the Operation state in Figure 5.16. This is a superstate that can be expanded, as shown in Figure 5.17.