˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜
A software product release is not just the executable code of the system. The 
release may also include:˜ configuration files defining how the release should be configured for particular 
installations;˜ data files, such as files of error messages in different languages, that are needed 
for successful system operation;˜ an installation program that is used to help install the system on target hardware;˜ electronic and paper documentation describing the system;˜ packaging and associated publicity that have been designed for that release.Preparing and distributing a system release for mass-market products is an expensive 
process. In addition to the technical work involved in creating a release distribution, 
advertising and publicity material have to be prepared. Marketing strategies may have 

to be designed to convince customers to buy the new release of the system. Careful 

thought must be given to release timing. If releases are too frequent or require hardware 

upgrades, customers may not move to the new release, especially if they have to pay for 

it. If system releases are infrequent, market share may be lost as customers move to 

alternative systems.The various technical and organizational factors that you should take into account 
when deciding on when to release a new version of a software product are shown in 

Figure 25.17.
Release creation is the process of creating the collection of files and documentation 
that include all components of the system release. This process involves several steps:1. The executable code of the programs and all associated data files must be identi-fied in the version control system and tagged with the release identifier.2.
 Configuration descriptions may have to be written for different hardware and 

operating systems.3. Updated instructions may have to be written for customers who need to config-
ure their own systems.4. Scripts for the installation program may have to be written.5.
 Web pages have to be created describing the release, with links to system 

documentation.6.
 Finally, when all information is available, an executable master image of the 

software must be prepared and handed over for distribution to customers or 

sales outlets.For custom software or software product lines, the complexity of the system release 

management process depends on the number of system customers. Special releases 

of the system may have to be produced for each customer. Individual customers 

may be running several different releases of the system at the same time on differ-
ent hardware. Where the software is part of a complex system of systems, several 
