˘˜˚ˆ˙˘˜˘˘˘
ˆˆSmall software companies that develop software products have been among the 
most enthusiastic adopters of agile methods. These companies are not constrained by 
organizational bureaucracies or process standards, and they can change quickly to 
adopt new ideas. Of course, larger companies have also experimented with agile 

methods in specific projects, but it is much more difficult for them to ﬁscale outﬂ 

these methods across the organization.It can be difficult to introduce agile methods into large companies for a number of 
reasons:1. Project managers who do not have experience of agile methods may be reluctant 
to accept the risk of a new approach, as they do not know how this will affect 
their particular projects.2.
 Large organizations often have quality procedures and standards that all pro-
jects are expected to follow, and, because of their bureaucratic nature, these are 
likely to be incompatible with agile methods. Sometimes, these are supported 
by software tools (e.g., requirements management tools), and the use of these 
tools is mandated for all projects.3.
 Agile methods seem to work best when team members have a relatively high 

skill level. However, within large organizations, there are likely to be a wide 

range of skills and abilities, and people with lower skill levels may not be effec-
tive team members in agile processes.4. There may be cultural resistance to agile methods, especially in those organiza-
tions that have a long history of using conventional systems engineering  processes.Change management and testing procedures are examples of company procedures 
that may not be compatible with agile methods. Change management is the process of 

controlling changes to a system, so that the impact of changes is predictable and costs are 

controlled. All changes have to be approved in advance before they are made, and this 

conflicts with the notion of refactoring. When refactoring is part of an agile process, any 

developer can improve any code without getting external approval. For large systems, 

there are also testing standards where a system build is handed over to an external testing 

team. This may conflict with test-first approaches used in agile development methods.Introducing and sustaining the use of agile methods across a large organization is 
a process of cultural change. Cultural change takes a long time to implement and 

often requires a change of management before it can be accomplished. Companies 

wishing to use agile methods need evangelists to promote change. Rather than try-
ing to force agile methods onto unwilling developers, companies have found that the 

best way to introduce agile is bit by bit, starting with an enthusiastic group of devel-
opers. A successful agile project can act as a starting point, with the project team 

spreading agile practice across the organization. Once the notion of agile is widely 

known, explicit actions can then be taken to spread it across the organization.