˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
3. Design a system so that diverse types of barriers are included. This means that the ﬁholesﬂ will probably be in different places, and so there is less chance of the 
holes lining up and failing to trap an error.4.
 Minimize the number of latent conditions in a system. Effectively, this means 

reducing the number and size of system ﬁholes.ﬂ However, this may significantly 

increase systems engineering costs. Reducing the number of bugs in the system 

increases testing and V & V costs. Therefore, this option may not be cost-effective.
In designing a system, you need to consider all of these options and make choices about what might be the most cost-effective ways to improve the system™s defenses. 
If you are building custom software, then using software checking to increase the 

number and diversity of layers may be the best option. However, if you are using 

off-the-shelf software, then you may have to consider how sociotechnical defenses 

may be added. You may decide to change training procedures to reduce the chances 
of problems occurring and to make it easier to deal with incidents when they arise.˘˘All software systems have associated operational processes that reflect the assump-
tions of the designers about how these systems will be used. Some software systems, 
particularly those that control or are interfaced to special equipment, have trained 

operators who are an intrinsic part of the control system. Decisions are made during 
the design stage about which functions should be part of the technical system and 

which functions should be the operator™s responsibility. For example, in an imaging 
system in a hospital, the operator may have the responsibility of checking the quality 
of the images immediately after they have been processed. This check allows the 

imaging procedure to be repeated if there is a problem.Operational processes are the processes that are involved in using the system for its defined purpose. For example, operators of an air traffic control system follow 

specific processes when aircraft enter and leave airspace, when they have to change 
height or speed, when an emergency occurs, and so on. For new systems, these oper-
ational processes have to be defined and documented during the system develop-
ment process. Operators may have to be trained and other work processes adapted to 
make effective use of the new system.System failure
Active failure(Human error)Latent conditions in defensive layersFigure 14.6
 Reason™s 
Swiss cheese model of 

system failure 
