˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜˜˜˜
A company with a reuse program may carry out some form of component certifi-cation before the component is made available for reuse. Certification means that 
someone apart from the developer checks the quality of the component. They test the 

component and certify that it has reached an acceptable quality standard, before it is 
made available for reuse. However, this process can be expensive, and so many 

companies simply leave testing and quality checking to the component developers.The successful reuse of components requires a development process tailored to 

including reusable components in the software being developed. The CBSE with 

reuse process has to include activities that find and integrate reusable components. 
The structure of such a process was discussed in Chapter 2, and Figure 16.
7 shows 
the principal activities within that process. Some of these activities, such as the 
 initial discovery of user requirements, are carried out in the same way as in other 

software processes. However, the essential differences between CBSE with reuse 

and software processes for original software development are as follows:1. The user requirements are initially developed in outline rather than in detail, and 
stakeholders are encouraged to be as flexible as possible in defining their 

requirements. Requirements that are too specific limit the number of compo-
nents that could meet these requirements. However, unlike incremental devel-
opment, you need a complete description of the requirements so that you can 

identify as many components as possible for reuse.2.
 Requirements are refined and modified early in the process depending on the 

components available. If the user requirements cannot be satisfied from available 

components, you should discuss the related requirements that can be supported 

by the reusable components. Users may be willing to change their minds if this 

means cheaper or quicker system delivery.3. There is a further component search and design refinement activity after the sys-
tem architecture has been designed. Apparently, usable components may turn out 
Identify candidatecomponentsOutlinesystemrequirements
Modifyrequirements
according to discovered
componentsArchitectural
designComposecomponents tocreate systemIdentify candidatecomponentsFigure 16.7 CBSE with reuse 