˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜on the computers where it will execute and setting software parameters to reflect the execution environment and the preferences of the system user. Mistakes such as 

forgetting to turn off debugging facilities or forgetting to change the default admin-
istration password can introduce vulnerabilities into a system.Good management practice can avoid many security problems that arise from 
configuration and deployment mistakes. However, software designers have the 

responsibility to ﬁdesign for deployment.ﬂ You should always provide support for 
deployment that reduces the chances of users and system administrators making 

mistakes when configuring the software.I recommend four ways to incorporate deployment support in a system:1. Include support for viewing and analyzing configurations You should always 

include facilities in a system that allow administrators or permitted users to 

examine the current configuration of the system.2. Minimize default privileges You should design software so that the default con-
figuration of a system provides minimum essential privileges.3. Localize configuration settings When designing system configuration support, 
you should ensure that everything in a configuration that affects the same part of 
a system is set up in the same place.4. Provide easy ways to fix security vulnerabilities You should include straightfor-
ward mechanisms for updating the system to repair security vulnerabilities that 
have been discovered.Deployment issues are less of a problem than they used to be as more and more software does not require client installation. Rather, the software runs as a service 
and is accessed through a web browser. However, server software is still vulnerable 
to deployment errors and omissions, and some types of system require dedicated 

software running on the user™s computer.Irrespective of how much effort you put into maintaining systems security, you 

should always design your system with the assumption that a security failure could 
occur. Therefore, you should think about how to recover from possible failures and 
restore the system to a secure operational state. For example, you may include a 

backup authentication system in case your password authentication is compromised.For example, say an unauthorized person from outside the clinic gains access to the Mentcare system and you don™t know how that person obtained a valid login/

password combination. You need to re-initialize the authentication system and not 
just change the credentials used by the intruder. This is essential because the intruder 
may also have gained access to other user passwords. You need, therefore, to ensure 
that all authorized users change their passwords. You also must ensure that the unau-
thorized person does not have access to the password-changing mechanism.