˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜
˜˜
Different people within the organization will see the boundaries of the system in dif-ferent ways. This is significant because establishing what is and what is not in the 
scope of the system is important when defining the system requirements.Figure 19.
3 illustrates this problem. The diagram shows a sociotechnical system as a set of layers, where each layer contributes, in some way, to the functioning of 
the system. At the core is a software-intensive technical system and its operational 

processes (shaded in Figure 19.3). Most people would agree that these are both parts 
of the system. However, the system™s behavior is influenced by a range of sociotech-
nical factors outside of the core. Should the system boundary simply be drawn 

around the core, or should it include other organizational levels?Whether or not these broader sociotechnical considerations should be considered to 
be part of a system depends on the organization and its policies and rules. If organiza-
tional rules and policies can be changed, then some people might argue they should be 

part of the system. However, it is more difficult to change organizational culture and 

even more challenging to change strategy and goals. Only governments can change laws 

to accommodate a system. Moreover, different stakeholders may have different opinions 

on where the system boundaries should be drawn. There are no simple answers to these 

questions, but they have to be discussed and negotiated during the system design process.Generally, large sociotechnical systems are used in organizations. When you are designing and developing sociotechnical systems, you need to understand, as far as 

possible, the organizational environment in which they will be used. If you don™t, the 
systems may not meet business needs. Users and their managers may reject the sys
-
tem or fail to use it to its full potential.Figure 19.
4 shows the key elements in an organization that may affect the require-ments, design, and operation of a sociotechnical system. A new system may lead to 
changes in some or all of these elements:1. Process changes A new system may mean that people have to change the way that they work. If so, training will certainly be required. If changes are signifi-
cant, or if they involve people losing their jobs, there is a danger that the users 
will resist the introduction of the system.Technical
systemNational laws and regulationsOrganizational strategies and goalsOrganizational cultureOrganizational policies and rulesOperational processesFigure 19.3 Layered structure of 
sociotechnical systems