˜˜˚˝˜˜˜
˜˜
this is shown in Figure 9.9. From this diagram, you can see that there are four 
 clusters of systems:1. Low quality, low business value 
Keeping these systems in operation will be 
expensive, and the rate of the return to the business will be fairly small. These 
systems should be scrapped.2. Low quality, high business value These systems are making an important business 

contribution, so they cannot be scrapped. However, their low quality means that 

they are expensive to maintain. These systems should be reengineered to improve 

their quality. They may be replaced, if suitable off-the-shelf systems are available.3. High quality, low business value These systems don™t contribute much to the 

business but may not be very expensive to maintain. It is not worth replacing 
these systems, so normal system maintenance may be continued if expensive 

changes are not required and the system hardware remains in use. If expensive 
changes become necessary, the software should be scrapped.4. High quality, high business value These systems have to be kept in operation. 
However, their high quality means that you don™t have to invest in transforma-
tion or system replacement. Normal system maintenance should be continued.The business value of a system is a measure of how much time and effort the 
system saves compared to manual processes or the use of other systems. To assess 
the business value of a system, you have to identify system stakeholders, such as the 

end-users of a system and their managers, and ask a series of questions about the 

system. There are four basic issues that you have to discuss:1. The use of the system If a system is only used occasionally or by a small number of 
people, this may mean that it has a low business value. A legacy system may have 

been developed to meet a business need that has either changed or can now be met 
12345678910System quality
Business valueHigh business value
Low qualityHigh business value
High qualityLow business value
Low qualityLow business value
High qualityFigure 9.9 An example of a legacy system 
assessment 