˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜2. Job changes New systems may deskill the users in an environment or cause them 
to change the way they work. If so, users may actively resist the introduction of 

the system into the organization. Professional staff, such as doctors or teachers, 

may resist system designs that require them to change their normal way of work
-
ing. The people involved may feel that their professional expertise is being 

eroded and that their status in the organization is being reduced by the system.3. Organizational policies The proposed system may not be completely consistent 
with organizational policies (e.g., on privacy). This may require system changes, 
policy changes, or process changes to bring the system and policies into line.4. Organizational politics The system may change the political power structure in 
an organization. For example, if an organization is dependent on a complex sys-
tem, those who control access to that system have a great deal of political power. 
Alternatively, if an organization reorganizes itself into a different structure, this 
may affect the requirements and use of the system.Sociotechnical systems are complex systems, which means that it is practically 
impossible to have a complete understanding, in advance, of their behavior. This 

complexity leads to three important characteristics of sociotechnical systems:1. They have emergent properties that are properties of the system as a whole, rather 
than associated with individual parts of the system. Emergent properties depend 

on both the system components and the relationships between them. Some of 

these relationships only come into existence when the system is  integrated from its 
components, so the emergent properties can only be evaluated at that time. 

Security and dependability are examples of important emergent system properties.2.
 They are nondeterministic, so that when presented with a specific input, they 

may not always produce the same output. The system™s behavior depends on the 
human operators, and people do not always react in the same way. Furthermore, 
use of the system may create new relationships between the system components 
and hence change its emergent behavior.3. The system™s success criteria are subjective rather than objective. The extent to 
which the system supports organizational objectives does not just depend on the 
system itself. It also depends on the stability of these objectives, the relationships 
Policies
ProcessesJobsPolitics
Systems
Figure 19.4  Organizational elements