˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜A computer only becomes useful when it includes both software and hardware. 
Without hardware, a software system is an abstractionŠsimply a representation of 
some human knowledge and ideas. Without software, a hardware system is a set of 
inert electronic devices. However, if you put them together to form a computer sys-
tem, you create a machine that can carry out complex computations and deliver the 
results of these computations to its environment.This illustrates one of the fundamental characteristics of a system: It is more than the 
sum of its parts. Systems have properties that only become apparent when their compo
-nents are integrated and operate together. Furthermore, systems are developed to sup-port human activitiesŠwork, entertainment, communication, protection of people and 

the environment, and so on. They interact with people, and their design is influenced by 

human and organizational concerns. Hardware, human, social, and organizational fac-tors have to be taken into account when developing all professional software systems.Systems that include software fall into two categories:1. Technical computer-based systems are systems that include hardware and soft-
ware components but not procedures and processes. Examples of technical 
 systems include televisions, mobile phones, and other equipment with embed-
ded software. Applications for PCs, computer games, and mobile devices are 

also technical systems. Individuals and organizations use technical systems for a 
particular purpose, but knowledge of this purpose is not part of the technical 

system. For example, the word processor I am using (Microsoft Word) is not 

aware that it is being used to write a book.2 Sociotechnical systems: include one or more technical systems but, crucially, also 

people, who understand the purpose of the system, within the system itself. 

Sociotechnical systems have defined operational processes, and people (the opera
-
tors) are inherent parts of the system. They are governed by organizational policies 

and rules and may be affected by external constraints such as national laws and regu-
latory policies. For example, this book was created through a sociotechnical publish-
ing system that includes various processes (creation, editing, layout, etc.) and 

technical systems (Microsoft Word and Excel, Adobe Illustrator, InDesign, etc.).Systems engineering (White et al. 1993; Stevens et al. 1998; Thayer 2002) is the 
activity of designing entire systems, taking into account the characteristics of hardware, 

software, and human elements of these systems. Systems engineering includes every-
thing to do with procuring, specifying, developing, deploying, operating, and maintain
-
ing both technical and sociotechnical systems. Systems engineers have to consider the 

capabilities of hardware and software as well as the system™s interactions with users 

and its environment. They must think about the system™s services, the constraints under 

which the system must be built and operated, and the ways in which the system is used.In this chapter, my focus is on the engineering of large and complex software-intensive systems. These are ﬁenterprise systems,ﬂ that is, systems that are used to 

support the goals of a large organization. Enterprise systems are used by govern
-
ment and the military services as well as large companies and other public bodies. 
