˜˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜˜˜˜
programming language; the development environment or process standards to be used; and environmental requirements that specify the operating environ-
ment of the system.3. External requirements This broad heading covers all requirements that are 

derived from factors external to the system and its development process. These 
may include regulatory requirements that set out what must be done for the sys-
tem to be approved for use by a regulator, such as a nuclear safety authority; 

legislative requirements that must be followed to ensure that the system oper
-
ates within the law; and ethical requirements that ensure that the system will be 
acceptable to its users and the general public.Figure 4.
4 shows examples of product, organizational, and external requirements that could be included in the Mentcare system specification. The product require-
ment is an availability requirement that defines when the system has to be available 

and the allowed downtime each day. It says nothing about the functionality of the 
Mentcare system and clearly identifies a constraint that has to be considered by 

the˜system designers.The organizational requirement specifies how users authenticate themselves to 
the system. The health authority that operates the system is moving to a standard 

authentication procedure for all software where, instead of users having a login 

name, they swipe their identity card through a reader to identify themselves. The 

external requirement is derived from the need for the system to conform to privacy 
legislation. Privacy is obviously a very important issue in health care systems, and 
the requirement specifies that the system should be developed in accordance with a 
national privacy standard.A common problem with non-functional requirements is that stakeholders pro-pose requirements as general goals, such as ease of use, the ability of the system to 
recover from failure, or rapid user response. Goals set out good intentions but cause 
problems for system developers as they leave scope for interpretation and subse-
quent dispute once the system is delivered. For example, the following system goal 
is typical of how a manager might express usability requirements:The system should be easy to use by medical staff and should be organized in 
such a way that user errors are minimized.Figure 4.4 Examples of possible non-functional 
requirements for the 
Mentcare systemPRODUCT REQUIREMENTThe Mentcare system shall be available to all clinics during normal working hours (MonŒFri, 08:30Œ17:30). 
Downtime within normal working hours shall not exceed 5 seconds in any one day.ORGANIZATIONAL REQUIREMENTUsers of the Mentcare system shall identify themselves using their health authority identity card.EXTERNAL REQUIREMENTThe system shall implement patient privacy provisions as set out in HStan-03-2006-priv.