˜˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜
4. How can groups integrate people who are not co-located? It is now common for groups to include members from different organizations and for people to work 

from home as well as in a shared office. This change has to be considered in 

group decision-making processes.5.
 How can knowledge be shared across the group? Group organization affects 

information sharing as certain methods of organization are better for sharing 

than others. However, you should avoid too much information sharing as people 
become overloaded and excessive information distracts them from their work.Small programming groups are usually organized in an informal way. The group 
leader gets involved in the software development with the other group members. In an 

informal group, the group as a whole discusses the work to be carried out, and tasks 

are allocated according to ability and experience. More senior group members may be 

responsible for the architectural design. However, detailed design and implementation 

is the responsibility of the team member who is allocated to a particular task.Agile development teams are always informal groups. Agile enthusiasts claim 
that formal structure inhibits information exchange. Many decisions that are usually 
seen as management decisions (such as decisions on schedule) may be devolved to 
group members. However, there still needs to be a project manager who is responsi-
ble for strategic decision making and communications outside of the group.Informal groups can be very successful, particularly when most group members are experienced and competent. Such a group makes decisions by consensus, which 
improves cohesiveness and performance. However, if a group is composed mostly of 
inexperienced or incompetent members, informality can be a hindrance. With no 

experienced engineers to direct the work, the result can be a lack of coordination 

between group members and, possibly, eventual project failure.In hierarchical groups the group leader is at the top of the hierarchy. He or she has more formal authority than the group members and so can direct their work. There is 

a clear organizational structure, and decisions are made toward the top of the hierar-
chy and implemented by people lower down. Communications are primarily 
 instructions from senior staff; the people at lower levels of the hierarchy have rela-
tively little communication with the managers at the upper levels.Hiring the right peopleProject managers are often responsible for selecting the people in the organization who will join their software 
engineering team. Getting the best possible people in this process is very important as poor selection decisions 
may be a serious risk to the project.Key factors that should influence the selection of staff are education and training, application domain and tech-
nology experience, communication ability, adaptability, and problem solving ability.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/people-selection/