that occurs when a single support service is provided? Can this fit into the 
RESTful model, or should it be redesigned as an entity-oriented service.3. Is the service independent? That is, to what extent does it rely on the availability 

of other services?4.
 Does the service have to maintain state? If state information is required, this 

must either be maintained in a database or passed as a parameter to the service. 
Using a database affects service reusability as there is a dependency between the 

service and the required database. In general, services where the state is passed 

to the service are easier to reuse, as no database binding is required.5. Might this service be used by external clients? For example, an entity-oriented 

service associated with a catalog could be made available to both internal and 

external users.
6. Are different users of the service likely to have different non-functional require
-
ments? If they do, then more than one version of a service should perhaps be 

implemented.The answers to these questions help you select and refine abstractions that can be 
implemented as services. However, there is no formulaic way of deciding which are 

the best services. You need to use your experience and business knowledge to decide 

on what are the most appropriate services.The output of the service selection process is a set of identified services and asso
-ciated requirements for these services. The functional service requirements should 

define what the service should do. The non-functional requirements should define 

the security, performance, and availability requirements of the service.
To help you understand the process of service candidate identification and 
 implementation, consider the following example:
A company, which sells computer equipment, has arranged special prices for 

approved configurations for some large customers. To facilitate automated 

ordering, the company wishes to produce a catalog service that will allow 

customers to select the equipment that they need. Unlike a consumer catalog, 

orders are not placed directly through a catalog interface. Instead, goods are 

ordered through the web-based procurement system of each company that 

accesses the catalog as a web service. The reason for this is that large compa
-
nies usually have their own budgeting and approval procedures for orders that 

must be followed when an order is placed.
The catalog service is an example of an entity-oriented service, where the underlying 
resource is the catalog. The functional catalog service requirements are as follows:
1. A specific version of the catalog shall be provided for each user company. This 
shall include the approved configurations and equipment that may be ordered by 
˜˚˛˝ˆ˜˜˜
˜˜˜
