˜˜˚˛ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜
answer these questions defined. Measurements that are not directly relevant to these questions need not be collected.2. Select components to be assessed 
You may not need to assess metric values for 

all of the components in a software system. Sometimes you can select a repre-
sentative selection of components for measurement, allowing you to make an 

overall assessment of system quality. At other times, you may wish to focus on 

the core components of the system that are in almost constant use. The quality 

of these components is more important than the quality of components that are 
infrequently executed.3. Measure component characteristics The selected components are measured, 

and the associated metric values are computed. This step normally involves pro-
cessing the component representation (design, code, etc.) using an automated 

data collection tool. This tool may be specially written or may be a feature of 
design tools that are already in use.4. Identify anomalous measurements After the component measurements have 

been made, you then compare them with each other and to previous measure
-
ments that have been recorded in a measurement database. You should look for 
unusually high or low values for each metric, as these suggest that there could 
be problems with the component exhibiting these values.5. Analyze anomalous components When you have identified components that 

have anomalous values for your chosen metrics, you should examine them to 

decide whether or not these anomalous metric values mean that the quality of 

the component is compromised. An anomalous metric value for complexity 

(say) does not necessarily mean a poor-quality component. There may be 

some other reason for the high value, so there may not be any component 

quality problems.If possible, you should maintain all collected data as an organizational 
resource and keep historical records of all projects even when data has not been 

used during a particular project. Once a sufficiently large measurement database 

has been established, you can then make comparisons of software quality across 

projects and validate the relations between internal component attributes and 

quality characteristics.Measure
componentcharacteristicsIdentifyanomalousmeasurements
Analyze
anomalouscomponentsSelectcomponents tobe assessedChoosemeasurements
to be madeFigure 24.13 The process of product 
measurement