˜˚˛˝˙˙ˆˇ˘˜˜
˜˙ˇconceptual designThe development of a high-level vision of a complex system and a description of  its essential capabilities. Designed to be understood by people who are not  
systems engineers.configurable application systemAn application system product, developed by a system vendor, that offers function-
ality that may be configured for use in different companies and environments.configuration itemA machine-readable unit, such as a document or a source code file, that is subject to change 

and where the change has to be controlled by a configuration management system.configuration managementThe process of managing the changes to an evolving software product. Configura-
tion management involves version management, system building, change manage-
ment and release management.Constructive Cost Modeling (COCOMO)A family of algorithmic cost estimation models. COCOMO was first proposed in 
the early-1980s and has been modified and updated since then to reflect new tech-
nology and changing software engineering practice. COCOMO II is its latest 
instantiation and is a freely available algorithmic cost estimation model that is sup-
ported by open source software tools.CORBASee Common Request Broker Architecture.control metricA software metric that allows managers to make planning decisions based on infor-
mation about the software process or the software product that is being developed. 
Most control metrics are process metrics.critical systemA computer system whose failure can result in significant economic, human or 
environmental losses.COTS systemA Commercial Off-the-Shelf system. The term COTS is now mostly used in  military systems. See configurable application system.CVSA widely used, open-source software tool used for version management.data processing systemA system that aims to process large amounts of structured data. These systems usually 

process the data in batches and follow an input-process-output model. Examples of 

data processing systems are billing and invoicing systems, and payment systems.