˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜In this 
chapter, I focus on predictor metrics, whose values are automatically 
assessed by analyzing code or documents. I discuss control metrics and how they are used in process improvement in web Chapter 26.Measurements of a software system may be used in two ways:1. To assign a value to system quality attributes By measuring the characteristics 
of system components and then aggregating these measurements, you may be 
able to assess system quality attributes, such as maintainability.2. To identify the system components whose quality is substandard Measurements 

can identify individual components with characteristics that deviate from the norm. 

For example, you can measure components to discover those with the highest com-
plexity. These components are most likely to contain bugs because the complexity 

makes it more likely that the component developer has made mistakes.It is difficult to make direct measurements of many of the software quality attrib-utes shown in Figure 24.2. Quality attributes such as maintainability, understanda-
bility, and usability are external attributes that relate to how developers and users 

experience the software. They are affected by subjective factors, such as user experi-
ence and education, and they cannot therefore be measured objectively. To make a 
judgment about these attributes, you have to measure some internal attributes of the 
software (such as its size and complexity) and assume that these are related to the 
quality characteristics that you are concerned with. Figure 
24.10 shows some external software quality attributes and internal attrib
-utes that could, intuitively, be related to them. The diagram suggests that there may 
be relationships between external and internal attributes, but it does not say how 

these attributes are related. Kitchenham (Kitchenham 1990) suggested that if the 

measure of the internal attribute is to be a useful predictor of the external software 
characteristic, three conditions must hold:Reliability
Depth of inheritance treeCyclomatic complexity
Program size in lines
of code
Number of error
messages
Length of user manual
Maintainability
Usability
ReusabilityExternal quality attributesInternal attributesFigure 24.10  Relationships between 
internal and external 
software attributes