˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜˜might seem to be risky. However, if there are only two or three demands on the system 
in its entire lifetime, then the system is unlikely to ever fail.ROCOF should be used when demands on systems are made regularly rather than 
intermittently. For example, in a system that handles a large number of transactions, 
you may specify a ROCOF of 10 failures per day. This means that you are willing to 
accept that an average of 10 transactions per day will not complete successfully and 
will have to be canceled and resubmitted. Alternatively, you may specify ROCOF as 
the number of failures per 1000 transactions.If the absolute time between failures is important, you may specify the reliability 
as the mean time to failures (MTTF). For example, if you are specifying the required 

reliability for a system with long transactions (such as a computer-aided design sys-
tem), you should use this metric. The MTTF should be much longer than the average 

time that a user works on his or her models without saving the user™s results. This 

means that users are unlikely to lose work through a system failure in any one session.Non-functional reliability requirements are specifications of the required reliability 
and availability of a system using one of the reliability metrics (POFOD, ROCOF, or 
AVAIL) described in the previous section. Quantitative reliability and availability 
specification has been used for many years in safety-critical systems but is uncom-
mon for business critical systems. However, as more and more companies demand 

24/7 service from their systems, it makes sense for them to be precise about their 

reliability and availability expectations.Quantitative reliability specification is useful in a number of ways:1. The process of deciding the required level of the reliability helps to clarify what 
stakeholders really need. It helps stakeholders understand that there are  different 
types of system failure, and it makes clear to them that high levels of reliability 
are expensive to achieve.2. It provides a basis for assessing when to stop testing a system. You stop when 
the system has reached its required reliability level.3.
 It is a means of assessing different design strategies intended to improve the relia-
bility of a system. You can make a judgment about how each strategy might lead 

to the required levels of reliability.4. If a regulator has to approve a system before it goes into service (e.g., all systems 

that are critical to flight safety on an aircraft are regulated), then evidence that a 

required reliability target has been met is important for system certification.To avoid incurring excessive and unnecessary costs, it is important that you spec
-ify the reliability that you really need rather than simply choose a very high level of 
reliability for the whole system. You may have different requirements for different 