˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Incremental delivery (Figure 2.10) is an approach to software development where 
some of the developed increments are delivered to the customer and deployed for 

use in their working environment. In an incremental delivery process, customers 

define which of the services are most important and which are least important to 

them. A number of delivery increments are then defined, with each increment pro-
viding a subset of the system functionality. The allocation of services to increments 

depends on the service priority, with the highest priority services implemented and 

delivered first.Once the system increments have been identified, the requirements for the 
services to be delivered in the first increment are defined in detail and that incre-
ment is developed. During development, further requirements analysis for later 

increments can take place, but requirements changes for the current increment 

are not accepted.Once an increment is completed and delivered, it is installed in the customer™s 
normal working environment. They can experiment with the system, and this helps 
them clarify their requirements for later system increments. As new increments are 
completed, they are integrated with existing increments so that system functionality 
improves with each delivered increment.Incremental delivery has a number of advantages:1. Customers can use the early increments as prototypes and gain experience that 

informs their requirements for later system increments. Unlike prototypes, 

these are part of the real system, so there is no relearning when the complete 

system is available.2.
 Customers do not have to wait until the entire system is delivered before they 
can gain value from it. The first increment satisfies their most critical require
-
ments, so they can use the software immediately.3.
 The process maintains the benefits of incremental development in that it should 
be relatively easy to incorporate changes into the system.Design systemarchitecture
Define outline requirementsAssign requirements      to incrementsSystem
incomplete?FinalsystemDevelop systemincrement
Validate
increment
Integrateincrement
Validate
systemDeployincrement
System
complete?Figure 2.10  Incremental delivery