˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
3. Administrative reporting The system generates monthly management reports 
showing the number of patients treated at each clinic, the number of patients 

who have entered and left the care system, the number of patients sectioned, the 
drugs prescribed and their costs, etc.Two different laws affect the system: laws on data protection that govern the con-fidentiality of personal information and mental health laws that govern the compul-
sory detention of patients deemed to be a danger to themselves or others. Mental 

health is unique in this respect as it is the only medical speciality that can recommend 

the detention of patients against their will. This is subject to strict legislative safe-
guards. One aim of the Mentcare system is to ensure that staff always act in accord-
ance with the law and that their decisions are recorded for judicial review if necessary.As in all medical systems, privacy is a critical system requirement. It is essential that patient information is confidential and is never disclosed to anyone apart from 
authorized medical staff and the patient themselves. The Mentcare system is also a 

safety-critical system. Some mental illnesses cause patients to become suicidal or a 
danger to other people. Wherever possible, the system should warn medical staff 

about potentially suicidal or dangerous patients.The overall design of the system has to take into account privacy and safety 
requirements. The system must be available when needed; otherwise safety may be 

compromised, and it may be impossible to prescribe the correct medication to patients. 

There is a potential conflict here. Privacy is easiest to maintain when there is only a 

single copy of the system data. However, to ensure availability in the event of server 

failure or when disconnected from a network, multiple copies of the data should be 

maintained. I discuss the trade-offs between these requirements in later chapters.

To help monitor climate change and to improve the accuracy of weather forecasts in 
remote areas, the government of a country with large areas of wilderness decides to 
deploy several hundred weather stations in remote areas. These weather stations col
-
lect data from a set of instruments that measure temperature and pressure, sunshine, 
rainfall, wind speed and wind direction.Wilderness weather stations are part of a larger system (Figure 1.7), which is a weather information system that collects data from weather stations and makes it 

available to other systems for processing. The systems in Figure 1.7 are:1. The weather station system This system is responsible for collecting weather 
data, carrying out some initial data processing, and transmitting it to the data 

management system.2. The data management and archiving system This system collects the data from 
all of the wilderness weather stations, carries out data processing and analysis, 

and archives the data in a form that can be retrieved by other systems, such as 
weather forecasting systems.