˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜2. Non-functional emergent properties, which relate to the behavior of the system 
in its operational environment. Reliability, performance, safety, and security are 

examples of these properties. These system characteristics are critical for 
 computer-based systems, as failure to achieve a minimum defined level in these 

properties usually makes the system unusable. Some users may not need some of 

the system functions, so the system may be acceptable without them. However, 

a system that is unreliable or too slow is likely to be rejected by all its users.Emergent properties, such as reliability, depend on both the properties of 
 individual components and their interactions or relationships. For example, the 
 reliability of a sociotechnical system is influenced by three things:1. Hardware reliability What is the probability of hardware components failing, 
and how long does it take to repair a failed component?2. Software reliability How likely is it that a software component will produce an 
incorrect output? Software failure is unlike hardware failure in that software 

does not wear out. Failures are often transient. The system carries on working 
after an incorrect result has been produced.3. Operator reliability 
How likely is it that the operator of a system will make an 

error and provide an incorrect input? How likely is it that the software will fail 
to detect this error and propagate the mistake?Hardware, software, and operator reliability are not independent but affect each other 

in unpredictable ways. Figure 19.6 shows how failures at one level can be prop-agated to other levels in the system. Say a hardware component in a system starts to 

go wrong. Hardware failure can sometimes generate spurious signals that are outside 
the range of inputs expected by the software. The software can then behave unpre-
dictably and produce unexpected outputs. These may confuse and consequently 

cause stress in the system operator.We know that people are more likely to make mistakes when they feel stressed. So a hardware failure may be the trigger for operator errors. These mistakes can, in 
turn, lead to unexpected software behavior, resulting in additional demands on the 
processor. This could overload the hardware, causing more failures and so on. Thus, 
an initial, relatively minor, failure, can rapidly develop into a serious problem that 
could lead to a complete shutdown of the system.The reliability of a system depends on the context in which that system is used. 
However, the system™s environment cannot be completely specified, and it is often 

impossible for the system designers to limit the environment for operational sys
-
tems. Different systems operating within an environment may react to problems in unpredictable ways, thus affecting the reliability of all of these systems.For example, say a system is designed to operate at normal room temperature. 
To˜allow for variations and exceptional conditions, the electronic components of 

a˜system are designed to operate within a certain range of temperatures, say, from 

0˜degrees to 40 degrees Celsius. Outside this temperature range, the components will 
