˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
and user manuals may all be reviewed. The review should check the consistency and completeness of the documents or code under review and, if standards have been 

defined, make sure that these quality standards have been followed.Reviews are not just about checking conformance to standards. They are also 
used to help discover problems and omissions in the software or project documenta-
tion. The conclusions of the review should be formally recorded as part of the qual
-
ity management process. If problems have been discovered, the reviewers™ comments 
should be passed to the author of the software or whoever is responsible for correct-
ing errors or omissions.The purpose of reviews and inspections is to improve software quality, not to assess 
the performance of people in the development team. Reviewing is a public process of 

error detection, compared with the more private component-testing process. Inevitably, 

mistakes that are made by individuals are revealed to the whole programming team. To 

ensure that all developers engage constructively with the review process, project man-agers have to be sensitive to individual concerns. They must develop a working culture 

that provides support without blame when errors are discovered.Quality reviews are not management progress reviews, although information about 
the software quality may be used in making management decisions. Progress reviews 

compare the actual progress in a software project against the planned progress. Their 

prime concern is whether or not the project will deliver useful software on time and 

on budget. Progress reviews take external factors into account, and changed circum-
stances may mean that software under development is no longer required or has to be 

radically changed. Projects that have developed high-quality software may have to be 

canceled because of changes to the business or its operating environment.˘˘Although there are many variations in the details of reviews, review processes 

(Figure 24.7) are structured into three phases:1. Pre-review activities 
These are preparatory activities that are essential for the 
review to be effective. Typically, pre-review activities are concerned with 

review planning and review preparation. Review planning involves setting up 

a˜review team, arranging a time and place for the review, and distributing 

the˜documents to be reviewed. During review preparation, the team may meet to 

get an overview of the software to be reviewed. Individual review team mem-bers read and understand the software or documents and relevant standards. 
ReviewmeetingIndividual
preparation
GrouppreparationPlanningFollow-up
checksImprovementErrorcorrection  Pre-review activities  Post-review activities
Figure 24.7 The software review  
process