˘˜˚˜˙˘˜˘˘˘
the team. To address this issue, the Scrum agile method was developed (Schwaber 
and Beedle 2001; Rubin 2013) to provide a framework for organizing agile projects 

and, to some extent at least, provide external visibility of what is going on. The devel
-
opers of Scrum wished to make clear that Scrum was not a method for project man-agement in the conventional sense, so they deliberately invented new terminology, 

such as ScrumMaster, which replaced names such as project manager. Figure 3.8 
summarizes Scrum terminology and what it means.Scrum is an agile method insofar as it follows the principles from the agile mani-festo, which I showed in Figure 3.2. However, it focuses on providing a framework 
for agile project organization, and it does not mandate the use of specific development 
Scrum termDefinitionDevelopment teamA self-organizing group of software developers, which should be no 
more than seven people. They are responsible for developing the 
software and other essential project documents.Potentially shippable product 
incrementThe software increment that is delivered from a sprint. The idea is that 
this should be ﬁpotentially shippable,ﬂ which means that it is in a 
finished state and no further work, such as testing, is needed to 
incorporate it into the final product. In practice, this is not always 
achievable.Product backlogThis is a list of ﬁto doﬂ items that the Scrum team must tackle. They 
may be feature definitions for the software, software requirements, user 
stories, or descriptions of supplementary tasks that are needed, such as 
architecture definition or user documentation.Product ownerAn individual (or possibly a small group) whose job is to identify 
product features or requirements, prioritize these for development, and 
continuously review the product backlog to ensure that the project 
continues to meet critical business needs. The Product Owner can be a 
customer but might also be a product manager in a software company 
or other stakeholder representative.ScrumA daily meeting of the Scrum team that reviews progress and prioritizes 
work to be done that day. Ideally, this should be a short face-to-face 
meeting that includes the whole team.ScrumMasterThe ScrumMaster is responsible for ensuring that the Scrum process is 
followed and guides the team in the effective use of Scrum. He or she 
is responsible for interfacing with the rest of the company and for 
ensuring that the Scrum team is not diverted by outside interference. 
The Scrum developers are adamant that the ScrumMaster should not 
be thought of as a project manager. Others, however, may not always 
find it easy to see the difference.SprintA development iteration. Sprints are usually 2 to 4 weeks long.VelocityAn estimate of how much product backlog effort a team can cover in a 
single sprint. Understanding a team™s velocity helps them estimate what 
can be covered in a sprint and provides a basis for measuring 
improving performance.Figure 3.8 Scrum terminology