˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜ Social networking systems and teleconferencing can be used for remote com-munications, but my experience with these systems is that they are most effec-
tive when people already know each other. You should arrange some face-to-face 
meetings early in the project so that people can directly interact with other 

members of the team. Through this direct interaction, people become part of a 
social group and accept the goals and priorities of that group.2. To satisfy esteem needs, you need to show people that they are valued by the 
organization. Public recognition of achievements is a simple and effective way 
of doing this. Obviously, people must also feel that they are paid at a level that 
reflects their skills and experience.3. Finally, to satisfy self-realization needs, you need to give people responsibility 
for their work, assign them demanding (but not impossible) tasks, and provide 
opportunities for training and development where people can enhance their 

skills. Training is an important motivating influence as people like to gain new 
knowledge and learn new skills.Maslow™s model of motivation is helpful up to a point, but I think that a problem 
with it is that it takes an exclusively personal viewpoint on motivation. It does not 

take adequate account of the fact that people feel themselves to be part of an organ-
ization, a professional group, and one or more cultures. Being a member of a cohe-
sive group is highly motivating for most people. People with fulfilling jobs often 

like to go to work because they are motivated by the people they work with and the 

work that they do. Therefore, as a manager, you also have to think about how a 

group as a whole can be motivated. I discuss this and other teamwork issues in 

Section 22.3.
In Figure 22.8, I illustrate a problem of motivation that managers often have to face. In this example, a competent group member loses interest in the work and in 
the group as a whole. The quality of her work falls and becomes unacceptable. This 
situation has to be dealt with quickly. If you don™t sort out the problem, the other 

group members will become dissatisfied and feel that they are doing an unfair share 
of the work.Physiological needs
Safety needsSocial needsEsteem needsSelf-realizationneedsFigure 22.7 Human needs hierarchy