˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜This often involves raising an alarm to draw an operator™s attention to the event. 
Sometimes the system may initiate some other preventative action, such as shutting 
down the system to preserve it from damage.The Observe and React pattern (Figures 21.6 and 21.7) is commonly used in 
monitoring systems. The values of sensors are observed, and the system initiates 

actions that depend on these sensor values. Monitoring systems may be composed of 
several instantiations of the Observe and React pattern, one for each type of sensor 
in the system. Depending on the system requirements, you may then optimize the 

design by combining processes (e.g., you may use a single display process to display 
the information from all of the different types of sensor).As an example of the use of this pattern, consider the design of a burglar alarm system to be installed in an office building:A software system is to be implemented as part of a burglar alarm system for 
commercial buildings. This uses several different types of sensors. These sen-
sors include movement detectors in individual rooms, door sensors that detect 
corridor doors opening, and window sensors on ground-floor windows that 

can detect when a window has been opened.When a sensor detects the presence of an intruder, the system automatically calls 
the local police and, using a
  voice synthesizer, reports the location of the alarm. 
It switches on lights in the rooms around the active sensor and sets off an audible 

alarm. The sensor system is normally powered by mains power but is equipped 

with a battery backup. Power loss is detected using a separate power circuit 

monitor that monitors the mains voltage. If a voltage drop is detected, the system 

assumes that intruders have interrupted the power supply, so an alarm is raised.A process architecture for the alarm system is shown in Figure 21.8. The arrows 
represent signals sent from one process to another. This system is a ﬁsoftﬂ real-time 
system that does not have stringent timing requirements. The sensors only need to detect 
Lighting control
process
External alert
process
Voltage monitor
process
System
controllerConsole displayprocess
Door sensorprocess
Movement
detector process
Window sensorprocess
Audible alarm
process
Control panelprocess
Testing process
Power management
process
Figure 21.8
 The process 
structure of a burglar 

alarm system 
