˜˚˛˝ˇ˜˜˜˜˜˝˜˜˜
thought of as a remote service, which can be accessed from any device that can run a 
standard browser. Widely used examples of SaaS include web-based mail systems, 

such as Yahoo and Gmail, and office applications, such as Google Docs and Office 365.This idea of software as a service (SaaS) involves hosting the software remotely and 
providing access to it over the Internet. The key elements of SaaS are as follows:1.
 Software is deployed on a server (or more commonly in the cloud) and is 
accessed through a web browser. It is not deployed on a local PC.2.
 The software is owned and managed by a software provider rather than the 

organizations using the software.3. Users may pay for the software according to how much use they make of it or 

through an annual or monthly subscription. Sometimes the software is free for 
anyone to use, but users must then agree to accept advertisements, which fund 
the software service.The development of SaaS has accelerated over the past few years as cloud com-puting has become widely used. When a service is deployed in the cloud, the number 
of servers can quickly change to match the user demands for that service. There is no 
need for service providers to provision for peak loads; as a result, the costs for these 
providers have been dramatically reduced.For software purchasers, the benefit of SaaS is that the costs of management of 
software are transferred to the provider. The provider is responsible for fixing 

bugs and installing software upgrades, dealing with changes to the operating sys-
tem platform, and ensuring that hardware capacity can meet demand. Software 

license management costs are zero. If someone has several computers, there is no 

need to license software for all of these. If a software application is only used 

occasionally, the pay-per-use model may be cheaper than buying an application. 

The software may be accessed from mobile devices, such as smartphones, from 

anywhere in the˜world.The main problem that inhibits the use of SaaS is data transfer with the remote 
service. Data transfer takes place at network speeds, and so transferring a large 

amount of data, such as video or high-quality images takes a lot of time. You may 
also have to pay the service provider according to the amount transferred. Other 

problems are lack of control over software evolution (the provider may change the 
software when it wishes) and problems with laws and regulations. Many countries 
have laws governing the storage, management, preservation, and accessibility of 

data, and moving data to a remote service may breach these laws.The notion of software as a service and service-oriented architectures (SOA), discussed in Chapter 18, are related, but they are not the same:1. Software as a service is a way of providing functionality on a remote server with client access through a web browser. The server maintains the user™s data and 
state during an interaction session. Transactions are usually long transactions, 
for example, editing a document.