˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜
˜˜
case. When  software or hardware changes are made to a system, a large part of the safety case may have to be rewritten to demonstrate that the system safety has not been affected by the change.ˇˇThe decision on whether or not a system is operationally safe should be based on 

logical arguments. These arguments should demonstrate that the evidence presented 

supports the claims about a system™s security and dependability. These claims may 
be absolute (event X will or will not happen) or probabilistic (the probability of 

occurrence of event Y is 0.n). An argument links the evidence and the claim. As 

shown in Figure 12.11, an argument is a relationship between what is thought to be 
the case (the claim) and a body of evidence that has been collected. The argument 
essentially explains why the claim, which is an assertion about system security or 
dependability, can be inferred from the available evidence.Arguments in a safety case are usually presented as ﬁclaim basedﬂ arguments. 
Some claim about system safety is made, and, on the basis of available evidence, 

an argument is presented as to why that claim holds. For example, the following 

argument might be used to justify a claim that computations carried out by the con
-
trol software in an insulin pump will not lead to an overdose of insulin being deliv-
ered. Of course, this is a very simplified presentation of the argument. In a real 

safety case, more detailed references to the evidence would be presented.Claim: The maximum single dose computed by the insulin pump will not 
exceed maxDose, where maxDose has been assessed as a safe single dose for a 
particular patient.Evidence: Safety argument for insulin pump software control program (covered 
later in this section).
Evidence: Test datasets for the insulin pump. In 400 tests, which provided com-plete code coverage, the value of the dose of insulin to be delivered, 
currentDose, never exceeded maxDose.EVIDENCE
EVIDENCE
EVIDENCE
<< ARGUMENT >>
CLAIM
Supports
Supports
Supports
JustifiesFigure 12.11 Structured arguments 