˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜
All of us are familiar with the problem of computer system failure. For no obvious reason, our computers sometimes crash or go wrong in some way. Programs running 
on these computers may not operate as expected and occasionally may corrupt the 

data that is managed by the system. We have learned to live with these failures, but 
few of us completely trust the personal computers that we normally use.The dependability of a computer system is a property of the system that reflects its trustworthiness. Trustworthiness here essentially means the degree of confidence 

a user has that the system will operate as they expect and that the system will not 
ﬁfailﬂ in normal use. It is not meaningful to express dependability numerically. 

Rather, relative terms such as ﬁnot dependable,ﬂ ﬁvery dependable,ﬂ and ﬁultra-
dependableﬂ can reflect the degree of trust that we might have in a system.There are five principal dimensions to dependability, as I have shown in 
Figure 10.1.1. Availability Informally, the availability of a system is the probability that it will be up and running and able to deliver useful services to users at any given time.2. Reliability Informally, the reliability of a system is the probability, over a given 
period of time, that the system will correctly deliver services as expected by the user.3. Safety Informally, the safety of a system is a judgment of how likely it is that the 
system will cause damage to people or its environment.4. Security Informally, the security of a system is a judgment of how likely it is that the system can resist accidental or deliberate intrusions.5. Resilience Informally, the resilience of a system is a judgment of how well that  system can maintain the continuity of its critical services in the presence of 
 disruptive events, such as equipment failure and cyberattacks. Resilience is a 
more recent addition to the set of dependability properties that were originally 

suggested by Laprie.The dependability properties shown in Figure 10.1 are complex properties that 
can be broken down into several simpler properties. For example, security includes 
ﬁintegrityﬂ (ensuring that the systems program and data are not damaged) and ﬁcon-
fidentialityﬂ (ensuring that information can only be accessed by people who are 

authorized). Reliability includes ﬁcorrectnessﬂ (ensuring the system services are as 
specified), ﬁprecisionﬂ (ensuring information is delivered at an appropriate level of 
detail), and ﬁtimelinessﬂ (ensuring that information is delivered when it is required).Of course, not all dependability properties are critical for all systems. For the 
insulin pump system, introduced in Chapter 1, the most important properties are reli
-
ability (it must deliver the correct dose of insulin) and safety (it must never deliver a 
dangerous dose of insulin). Security is not an issue as the pump does not store confi-
dential information. It is not networked and so cannot be maliciously attacked. For 