˜˜˚˝˜˜˜
˜˜
has also been designed to run on a laptop, so that it may be accessed and used from sites that do not have secure network connectivity. When the local systems have 

secure network access, they use patient information in the database, but they can 

download and use local copies of patient records when they are disconnected. The 
system is not a complete medical records system and so does not maintain informa-
tion about other medical conditions. However, it may interact and exchange data 

with other clinical information systems.This system has two purposes:1.
 To generate management information that allows health service managers to 

assess performance against local and government targets.2.
 To provide medical staff with timely information to support the treatment of 

patients.Patients who suffer from mental health problems are sometimes irrational and 
disorganized so may miss appointments, deliberately or accidentally lose prescriptions 

and medication, forget instructions and make unreasonable demands on medical 

staff. They may drop in on clinics unexpectedly. In a minority of cases, they may be 
a danger to themselves or to other people. They may regularly change address or 

may be homeless on a long-term or short-term basis. Where patients are dangerous, 
they may need to be ﬁsectionedﬂŠthat is, confined to a secure hospital for treatment 
and observation.Users of the system include clinical staff such as doctors, nurses, and health visi-tors (nurses who visit people at home to check on their treatment). Nonmedical users 
include receptionists who make appointments, medical records staff who maintain 

the records system, and administrative staff who generate reports.The system is used to record information about patients (name, address, age, next of kin, etc.), consultations (date, doctor seen, subjective impressions of the patient, 
etc.), conditions, and treatments. Reports are generated at regular intervals for medi-
cal staff and health authority managers. Typically, reports for medical staff focus on 
information about individual patients, whereas management reports are anonymized 
and are concerned with conditions, costs of treatment, etc.The key features of the system are:1. Individual care management Clinicians can create records for patients, edit the 
information in the system, view patient history, and so on. The system supports 
data summaries so that doctors who have not previously met a patient can 

quickly learn about the key problems and treatments that have been prescribed.2. Patient monitoring The system regularly monitors the records of patients that 
are involved in treatment and issues warnings if possible problems are detected. 
Therefore, if a patient has not seen a doctor for some time, a warning may be 
issued. One of the most important elements of the monitoring system is to keep 
track of patients who have been sectioned and to ensure that the legally required 
checks are carried out at the right time.