˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜
˜˜
general. The system requirements provide more specific information about the ser-vices and functions of the system that is to be implemented.You need to write requirements at different levels of detail because different 
types of readers use them in different ways. Figure 4.2 shows the types of readers of 
the user and system requirements. The readers of the user requirements are not usu-
ally concerned with how the system will be implemented and may be managers who 
are not interested in the detailed facilities of the system. The readers of the system 
requirements need to know more precisely what the system will do because they are 

concerned with how it will support the business processes or because they are 

involved in the system implementation.The different types of document readers shown in Figure 
4.
2 are examples of 
system stakeholders. As well as users, many other people have some kind of interest 
in the system. System stakeholders include anyone who is affected by the system in 
some way and so anyone who has a legitimate interest in it. Stakeholders range from 
end-users of a system through managers to external stakeholders such as regulators, The Mentcare system shall generate monthly management reports showing the cost of drugs prescribed by each clinic during that month.1.1  On the last working day of each month, a summary of the drugs
prescribed, their cost and the prescribing clinics shall be generated.
1.2  The system shall generate the report for printing after 17.30 on the 
last working day of the month.
1.3  A report shall be created for each clinic and shall list the individual
drug names, the total number of prescriptions, the number of doses 
prescribed and the total cost of the prescribed drugs.
1.4  If drugs are available in different dose units (e.g. 10mg, 20mg, etc.)
separate reports shall be created for each dose unit.
1.5  Access to drug cost reports shall be restricted to authorized users as 
listed on a management access control list.1.User requirements definitionSystem requirements specification
Client managers
System end-users

Client engineers

Contractor managers

System architects
System end-users

Client engineers

System architects
Software developers
Userrequirements
System
requirements
Figure 4.2 Readers of different types of 
requirements 
specificationFigure 4.1 User and system requirements