˜˙˙˜˜˚˛˝˙˙ˆˇ˘
model checkingA method of static verification where a state model of a system is exhaustively ana-lyzed in an attempt to discover unreachable states.model-driven development (MDD)An approach to software engineering centered around system models that are expressed 

in the UML, rather than programming language code. This extends MDA to consider 

activities other than development such as requirements engineering and testing.multi-tenant databasesDatabases where information from several different organizations is stored in the 
same database. Used in the implementation of software as a service.mutual exclusionA mechanism to ensure that a concurrent process maintains control of memory until 

updates or accesses have been completed..NETA very extensive framework used to develop applications for Microsoft Windows 
systems. Includes a component model that defines standards for components in 
Windows systems and associated middleware to support component execution.object classAn object class defines the attributes and operations of objects. Objects are created 
at run-time by instantiating the class definition. The object class name can be used 
as a type name in some object-oriented languages.object modelA model of a software system that is structured and organized as a set of object 
classes and the relationships between these classes. Various different perspectives 
on the model may exist such as a state perspective and a sequence perspective.object-oriented (OO) developmentAn approach to software development where the fundamental abstractions in the 
system are independent objects. The same type of abstraction is used during  specification, design and development.object constraint language (OCL)A language that is part of the UML, used to define predicates that apply to object 
classes and interactions in a UML model. The use of the OCL to specify compo-
nents is a fundamental part of model-driven development.Object Management Group (OMG)A group of companies formed to develop standards for object-oriented develop-
ment. Examples of standards promoted by the OMG are CORBA, UML and MDA.open sourceAn approach to software development where the source code for a system is made public 

and external users are encouraged to participate in the development of the system.