˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜in which the actor ﬁMedical Receptionistﬂ is involved. Each of these should be 
accompanied by a more detailed description.The UML includes a number of constructs for sharing all or part of a use case in 
other use case diagrams. While these constructs can sometimes be helpful for system 

designers, my experience is that many people, especially end-users, find them diffi-cult to understand. For this reason, these constructs are not described˜here.ˇˇSequence diagrams in the UML are primarily used to model the interactions between 
the actors and the objects in a system and the interactions between the objects them-
selves. The UML has a rich syntax for sequence diagrams, which allows many dif-
ferent kinds of interaction to be modeled. As space does not allow covering all 

possibilities here, the focus will be on the basics of this diagram type.As the name implies, a sequence diagram shows the sequence of interactions that 
take place during a particular use case or use case instance. Figure 5.6 is an example 
of a sequence diagram that illustrates the basics of the notation. This diagram models 
the interactions involved in the View patient information use case, where a medical 
receptionist can see some patient information.The objects and actors involved are listed along the top of the diagram, with a 
dotted line drawn vertically from these. Annotated arrows indicate interactions 

between objects. The rectangle on the dotted lines indicates the lifeline of the object 
concerned (i.e., the time that object instance is involved in the computation). You 

read the sequence of interactions from top to bottom. The annotations on the arrows 
indicate the calls to the objects, their parameters, and the return values. This example 

also shows the notation used to denote alternatives. A box named alt is used with the MedicalreceptionistRegister
patientTransfer data
ContactpatientView patient
info.Unregister
patientFigure 5.5 Use cases involving the role 
ﬁMedical receptionistﬂ