˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜Design-time configuration is used when it is impossible to use the existing 
deployment-time configuration facilities in a system to develop a new system 
 version. However, over time, when you have created several family members with comparable functionality, you may decide to refactor the core product line to include 

functionality that has been implemented in several application family members. You 
then make that new functionality configurable when the system is deployed.Deployment-time configuration involves using a configuration tool to create a 
specific system configuration that is recorded in a configuration database or as a set 
of configuration files (Figure 15.11). The executing system, which may either run on 
a server or as a stand-alone system on a PC, consults this database when executing so 

that its functionality may be specialized to its execution context.Several levels of deployment-time configuration may be provided in a system:1. Component selection, where you select the modules in a system that provide the 
required functionality. For example, in a patient information system, you may 
select an image management component that allows you to link medical images 
(X-rays, CT scans, etc.) to the patient™s medical record.2. Workflow and rule definition, where you define workflows (how information is 
processed, stage by stage), and validation rules that should apply to information 
entered by users or generated by the system.3. Parameter definition, where you specify the values of specific system parameters 

that reflect the instance of the application that you are creating. For example, you 

may specify the maximum length of fields for data input by a user or the charac-
teristics of hardware attached to the system.Deployment-time configuration can be very complex, and for large systems, it may 
take several months to configure and test a system for a customer. Large configurable 

systems may support the configuration process by providing software tools, such as 

planning tools, to support the configuration process. I discuss deployment-time con-
figuration further in Section 15.4.1. This discussion covers the reuse of application 

systems that have to be configured to work in different operational environments.ConfigurationdatabaseSystem database
Generic systemConfiguration
planning toolFigure 15.11  Deployment-time 
configuration 