˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜Figure 22.6 Risk indicatorsRisk typePotential indicatorsEstimationFailure to meet agreed schedule; failure to clear reported defects.OrganizationalOrganizational gossip; lack of action by senior management.
PeoplePoor staff morale; poor relationships among team members; high staff turnover.RequirementsMany requirements change requests; customer complaints.
TechnologyLate delivery of hardware or support software; many reported technology problems.ToolsReluctance by team members to use tools; complaints about 
software tools; requests for faster computers/more memory, 
and so on.The people working in a software organization are its greatest assets. It is expen-sive to recruit and retain good people, and it is up to software managers to ensure 

that the engineers working on a project are as productive as possible. In success-ful companies and economies, this productivity is achieved when people are 

respected by the organization and are assigned responsibilities that reflect their 

skills and experience.It is important that software project managers understand the technical issues that influence the work of software development. Unfortunately, however, good software 
engineers are not always good people managers. Software engineers often have 

strong technical skills but may lack the softer skills that enable them to motivate and 

lead a project development team. As a project manager, you should be aware of the 
potential problems of people management and should try to develop people manage-
ment skills.There are four critical factors that influence the relationship between a manager and the people that he or she manages:1. Consistency All the people in a project team should be treated in a comparable way. No one expects all rewards to be identical, but people should not feel that their contribution to the organization is undervalued.2. Respect Different people have different skills, and managers should respect 
these differences. All members of the team should be given an opportunity to 
make a contribution. In some cases, of course, you will find that people simply 
don™t fit into a team and they cannot continue, but it is important not to jump to 
conclusions about them at an early stage in the project.