˜˜˚˙˜˜˜
˜˜
Figure 9.
14 is a general model of the reengineering process. The input to the pro-cess is a legacy program, and the output is an improved and restructured version of 
the same program. The activities in this reengineering process are:1. Source code translation Using a translation tool, you can convert the program from an old programming language to a more modern version of the same lan-
guage or to a different language.2. Reverse engineering The program is analyzed and information extracted from 
it. This helps to document its organization and functionality. Again, this process 
is usually completely automated.3. Program structure improvement The control structure of the program is ana-
lyzed and modified to make it easier to read and understand. This can be par
-
tially automated, but some manual intervention is usually required.4. Program modularization 
Related parts of the program are grouped together, 

and, where appropriate, redundancy is removed. In some cases, this stage may 
involve architectural refactoring (e.g., a system that uses several different data 
stores may be refactored to use a single repository). This is a manual process.5. Data reengineering The data processed by the program is changed to reflect 

program changes. This may mean redefining database schemas and converting 
existing databases to the new structure. You should usually also clean up the 

data. This involves finding and correcting mistakes, removing duplicate records, 
and so on. This can be a very expensive and prolonged process.Program reengineering may not necessarily require all of the steps in Figure 9.11. You don™t need source code translation if you still use the application™s 
 programming language. If you can do all reengineering automatically, then recovering documenta
-
tion through reverse engineering may be unnecessary. Data  reengineering is required only if the data structures in the program change during system reengineering.Reverseengineering
Program
documentationDatareengineeringOriginal data
Program
structureimprovementProgram
modularizationRestructuredprogram
ReengineereddataReengineeredprogramOriginal
program
Source codetranslationFigure 9.14 The reengineering  
process 