˜˚˛˝˙˙ˆˇ˘˜˜
˜˜ˇScrumAn agile method of development, which is based on sprints Œ short development, cycles. Scrum may be used as a basis for agile project management alongside other 
agile methods such as XP.securityThe ability of a system to protect itself against accidental or deliberate intrusion. 
Security includes confidentiality, integrity and availability.SEISoftware Engineering Institute. A software engineering research and technology 
transfer center, founded with the aim of improving the standard of software  engineering in US companies.sequence diagramA diagram that shows the sequence of interactions required to complete some  operation. In the UML, sequence diagrams may be associated with use cases.serverA program that provides a service to other (client) programs.serviceSee web service.socio-technical systemA system, including hardware and software components, that has defined  operational 
processes followed by human operators and which operates within an organization. 

It is therefore influenced by organizational policies, procedures and structures.software analyticsAutomated analysis of static and dynamic data about software systems to discover 
relationships between these data. These relationships may provide insights about 
possible ways to improve the quality of the software.software architectureA model of the fundamental structure and organization of a software system.software as a service (SaaS)Software applications that are accessed remotely through a web browser rather than 
installed on local computers. Increasingly used to deliver application services to 
end-users.software development life cycleOften used as another name for the software process. Originally coined to refer to 
the waterfall model of the software process.software metricAn attribute of a software system or process that can be expressed numerically and 
measured. Process metrics are attributes of the process such as the time taken to 
complete a task; product metrics are attributes of the software itself such as size 
or˜complexity.