˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜
˜˜
In the system proposal development stage, the conceptual design team set out 
their ideas for alternative systems and these are the basis for a feasibility study to 
decide which of the ideas are worth further development. In a feasibility study, you 
should look at comparable systems that have been developed elsewhere and techno
-
logical issues (e.g., use of mobile devices) that may affect use of the system. Then 
you need to assess whether or not the system could be implemented using current 

hardware and software technologies.I have found that an additional useful activity is to develop an outline structure 
or architecture for the system. This activity is helpful both for making a feasibility 

assessment and for providing a basis for more detailed requirements engineering 

and architectural design. Furthermore, as the majority of systems are now assem
-
bled from existing systems and components, an initial architecture means that the 

key parts of the system have been identified and can be procured separately. 

This˜approach is often better than procuring a system as a monolithic unit from a 

single supplier.For the digital learning environment, we decided on a layered service architecture (shown in Figure 1.8). All components in the system should be considered to be 

replaceable services. In this way, users can replace a standard service with their pre-
ferred alternative and so adapt the system to the ages and interests of the students 

learning with the system.All of these activities generate information that is used to develop the system 
vision document. This is a critical document that senior decision makers use to 

decide whether or not further development of the system should go ahead. It is also 
used to develop further documents such as a risk analysis and budget estimate, which 
are also important inputs to the decision-making process.Managers use the system vision document to understand the system; a procure-ment team uses it to define a tender document; and requirements engineers use it 

as a basis for refining the system requirements. Because these different people 

need different levels of detail, I suggest that the document should be structured 

into two parts:1. A short summary for senior decision makers that presents the key points of the problem and the proposed system. It should be written so that readers can imme-
diately see how the system will be used and the benefits that it will provide.2. A number of appendices that develop the ideas in more detail and that can be 
used in the system procurement and requirements engineering activities.It is challenging to write a summary of the system vision inasmuch as the readers 
are busy people who are unlikely to have a technical background. I have found that 

using user stories is very effective, providing a tangible vision of system use that 

nontechnical people can relate to. Stories should be short and personalized and should 

be a feasible description of the use of the system, as shown in Figure 
19.8. There is 
another example of a user story from the same system in Chapter 4 (Figure 4.9).