˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜2. Change history recording 
The VC system keeps records of the changes that have 
been made to create a new version of a component from an earlier version. In 

some systems, these changes may be used to select a particular system version. 

This involves tagging components with keywords describing the changes made. 

You then use these tags to select the components to be included in a baseline.3. Independent development Different developers may be working on the same 

component at the same time. The version control system keeps track of compo
-
nents that have been checked out for editing and ensures that changes made to a 
component by different developers do not interfere.4. Project support A version control system may support the development of sev-
eral projects, which share components. It is usually possible to check in and 

check out all of the files associated with a project rather than having to work 

with one file or directory at a time.5. Storage management Rather than maintain separate copies of all versions of a 

component, the version control system may use efficient mechanisms to ensure 
that duplicate copies of identical files are not maintained. Where there are only 
small differences between files, the VC system may store these differences 

rather than maintain multiple copies of files. A specific version may be auto-matically re-created by applying the differences to a master version.Most software development is a team activity, so several team members often 
work on the same component at the same time. For example, let™s say Alice is mak-
ing some changes to a system, which involves changing components A, B, and C. At 

the same time, Bob is working on changes that require making changes to compo-
nents X, Y, and C. Both Alice and Bob are therefore changing C. It™s important to 
avoid situations where changes interfere with each otherŠBob™s changes to C over-
writing Alice™s or vice versa.To support independent development without interference, all version control 
systems use the concept of a project repository and a private workspace. The project 
repository maintains the ﬁmasterﬂ version of all components, which is used to create 
baselines for system building. When modifying components, developers copy 
AL1L2A1.1Ex1Ex2A1.2A1.3Codeline (A)BB1.1B1.2B1.3Codeline (B)CC1.1C1.2C1.3Codeline (C)Libraries and external componentsBaseline - V1AB1.2C1.1L1L2Ex1Baseline - V2A1.3B1.2C1.2L1L2Ex2MainlineFigure 25.4 Codelines and baselines