˜˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜
Putting together a group that has the right balance of technical skills, experi-ence, and personalities is a critical management task. However, successful groups 
are more than simply a collection of individuals with the right balance of skills. A 

good group is cohesive and thinks of itself as a strong, single unit. The people 

involved are motivated by the success of the group as well as by their own per-sonal goals.In a cohesive group, members think of the group as more important than the 
individuals who are group members. Members of a well-led, cohesive group are 

loyal to the group. They identify with group goals and other group members. 

They attempt to protect the group, as an entity, from outside interference. This 

makes the group robust and able to cope with problems and unexpected 
 situations.The benefits of creating a cohesive group are:1. The group can establish its own quality standards 
Because these standards are 

established by consensus, they are more likely to be observed than external 

standards imposed on the group.2. Individuals learn from and support each other 
Group members learn by work
-
ing together. Inhibitions caused by ignorance are minimized as mutual learning 
is encouraged.3. Knowledge is shared Continuity can be maintained if a group member leaves. 
Others in the group can take over critical tasks and ensure that the project is not 

unduly disrupted.4. Refactoring and continual improvement is encouraged 
Group members work 
collectively to deliver high-quality results and fix problems, irrespective of the 
individuals who originally created the design or program.Good project managers should always try to encourage group cohesiveness. They may try to establish a sense of group identity by naming the group and establishing a 
group identity and territory. Some managers like explicit group-building activities 

such as sports and games, although these are not always popular with group mem-
bers. Social events for group members and their families are a good way to bring 

people together.One of the most effective ways of promoting cohesion is to be inclusive. That is, 
you should treat group members as responsible and trustworthy, and make informa-
tion freely available. Sometimes managers feel that they cannot reveal certain infor-
mation to everyone in the group. This invariably creates a climate of mistrust. An 

effective way of making people feel valued and part of a group is to make sure that 
they know what is going on.You can see an example in the case study in Figure 22.9. Alice arranges regular informal meetings where she tells the other group members what is going on. She 
makes a point of involving people in the product development by asking them to 

come up with new ideas derived from their own family experiences. The ﬁaway 
