˜˜˚ˆ˜˜˜
˜˜
Requirements validation is the process of checking that requirements define the sys-tem that the customer really wants. It overlaps with elicitation and analysis, as it is 
concerned with finding problems with the requirements. Requirements validation is 
critically important because errors in a requirements document can lead to extensive 
rework costs when these problems are discovered during development or after the 
system is in service.The cost of fixing a requirements problem by making a system change is usually much greater than repairing design or coding errors. A change to the requirements 
usually means that the system design and implementation must also be changed. 

Furthermore, the system must then be retested.During the requirements validation process, different types of checks should be carried out on the requirements in the requirements document. These checks include:1. Validity checks These check that the requirements reflect the real needs of sys-tem users. Because of changing circumstances, the user requirements may have 
changed since they were originally elicited.2. Consistency checks Requirements in the document should not conflict. That is, 
there should not be contradictory constraints or different descriptions of the 

same system function.3. Completeness checks The requirements document should include requirements 
that define all functions and the constraints intended by the system user.4. Realism checks 
By using knowledge of existing technologies, the requirements 

should be checked to ensure that they can be implemented within the proposed 
budget for the system. These checks should also take account of the budget and 
schedule for the system development.5. Verifiability To reduce the potential for dispute between customer and contrac
-tor, system requirements should always be written so that they are verifiable. 

This means that you should be able to write a set of tests that can demonstrate 
that the delivered system meets each specified requirement.Requirements document standardsA number of large organizations, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and the IEEE, have defined standards 
for requirements documents. These are usually very generic but are nevertheless useful as a basis for develop-

ing more detailed organizational standards. The U.S. Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) is one 
of the best-known standards providers, and they have developed a standard for the structure of requirements 
documents. This standard is most appropriate for systems such as military command and control systems that 
have a long lifetime and are usually developed by a group of organizations.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/requirements-standard/