˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˘˜˘1.
 Large systems are usually systems of systemsŠcollections of separate, com-municating systems, where separate teams develop each system. Frequently, 

these teams are working in different places, sometimes in different time zones. 
It is practically impossible for each team to have a view of the whole system. 
Consequently, their priorities are usually to complete their part of the system 

without regard for wider systems issues.2.
 Large systems are brownfield systems (Hopkins and Jenkins 2008); that is, they 

include and interact with a number of existing systems. Many of the system require-
ments are concerned with this interaction and so don™t really lend themselves to 

flexibility and incremental development. Political issues can also be significant 

hereŠoften the easiest solution to a problem is to change an existing system. 

However, this requires negotiation with the managers of that system to convince 

them that the changes can be implemented without risk to the system™s operation.3. Where several systems are integrated to create a system, a significant fraction of 

the development is concerned with system configuration rather than original 

code development. This is not necessarily compatible with incremental devel-
opment and frequent system integration.4. Large systems and their development processes are often constrained by exter-
nal rules and regulations limiting the way that they can be developed, that 

require certain types of system documentation to be produced, and so on. 

Customers may have specific compliance requirements that may have to be fol-
lowed, and these may require process documentation to be completed.5. Large systems have a long procurement and development time. It is difficult to 
maintain coherent teams who know about the system over that period as, inevi-
tably, people move on to other jobs and projects.6. Large systems usually have a diverse set of stakeholders with different perspec-
tives and objectives. For example, nurses and administrators may be the end-users 

of a medical system, but senior medical staff, hospital managers, and others, are 
also stakeholders in the system. It is practically impossible to involve all of 

these different stakeholders in the development process.Large software systemSystem of
systemsBrownfielddevelopmentDiversestakeholdersProlongedprocurementSystem
configurationRegulatoryconstraintsFigure 3.13 Large project characteristics