˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜
˜˜
3. Risk analysis Describes possible project risks, the likelihood of these risks aris-ing, and the risk reduction strategies (discussed in Chapter 22) that are proposed.4. Hardware and software resource requirements Specifies the hardware and support 

software required to carry out the development. If hardware has to be purchased, 

estimates of the prices and the delivery schedule may be included.5. Work breakdown Sets out the breakdown of the project into activities and iden-
tifies the inputs to and the outputs from each project activity.6. Project schedule Shows the dependencies between activities, the estimated time 
required to reach each milestone, and the allocation of people to activities. The 
ways in which the schedule may be presented are discussed in the next section 
of the chapter.7. Monitoring and reporting mechanisms 
Defines the management reports that 

should be produced, when these should be produced, and the project monitoring 
mechanisms to be used.The main project plan should always include a project risk assessment and a 
schedule for the project. In addition, you may develop a number of supplementary 
plans for activities such as testing and configuration management. Figure 
23.2 shows 

some supplementary plans that may be developed. These are all usually needed in 
large projects developing large, complex systems.˘˘Project planning is an iterative process that starts when you create an initial project 
plan during the project startup phase. Figure 23.3 is a UML activity diagram that 

shows a typical workflow for a project planning process. Plan changes are inevita-
ble. As more information about the system and the project team becomes available 
PlanDescriptionConfiguration management planDescribes the configuration management procedures and 
structures to be used.Deployment planDescribes how the software and associated hardware (if required) 

will be deployed in the customer™s environment. This should 

include a plan for migrating data from existing systems.Maintenance planPredicts the maintenance requirements, costs, and effort.Quality planDescribes the quality procedures and standards that will be 
used in a project.Validation planDescribes the approach, resources, and schedule used for 
system validation.Figure 23.2 Project plan supplements