˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
parts of the systems may be located in different jurisdictions and so are subject to different laws and regulations.6.
 Data-intensive systems are technically complex because of the relationships 

between the data items. The technical complexity is also likely to be increased 
to cope with data errors and incompleteness. Governance complexity may be 

increased because of different laws governing the use of data.7. The heterogeneity of a system contributes to its technical complexity because of 
the difficulties of ensuring that different technologies used in different parts of 
the system are compatible.Large-scale systems of systems are now unimaginably complex entities that can-not be understood or analyzed as a whole. As I discuss in Section 20.3, the large 

number of interactions between the parts and the dynamic nature of these interac-
tions means that conventional engineering approaches do not work well for complex 
systems. It is complexity that is the root cause of problems in projects to develop 

large software-intensive systems, not poor management or technical failings.Earlier, I suggested that the distinguishing feature of a system of systems was that 

two or more of its elements were independently managed. Different people with 

different priorities have the authority to take day-to-day operational decisions about 

changes to the system. As their work is not necessarily aligned, conflicts can arise 

that require a significant amount of time and effort to resolve. Systems of systems, 

therefore, always have some degree of managerial complexity.However, this broad definition of SoS covers a very wide range of system types. It 
includes systems that are owned by a single organization but are managed by different 
Figure 20.3 SoS characteristics and 
system complexitySoS characteristicTechnical 
complexityManagerial 
complexityGovernance 
complexityOperational independenceXXManagerial independenceXXEvolutionary developmentXEmergenceXGeographical distributionXXXData-intensiveXXHeterogeneityX