˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜
˜˜
to iteration planning. Another approach to agile planning, which was developed as 
part of Extreme Programming, is based on user stories. The so-called planning game 

can be used in both release planning and iteration planning.The basis of the planning game (Figure 
23.8) is a set of user stories (see Chapter 3) 
that cover all of the functionality to be included in the final system. The development 

team and the software customer work together to develop these stories. The team 

members read and discuss the stories and rank them based on the amount of time they 

think it will take to implement the story. Some stories may be too large to implement 

in a single iteration, and these are broken down into smaller stories.The problem with ranking stories is that people often find it difficult to estimate how 
much effort or time is needed to do something. To make this easier, relative ranking 

may be used. The team compares stories in pairs and decides which will take the most 

time and effort, without assessing exactly how much effort will be required. At the end 

of this process, the list of stories has been ordered, with the stories at the top of the list 

taking the most effort to implement. The team then allocates notional effort points to all 

of the stories in the list. A complex story may have 8 points and a simple story 2 points.Once the stories have been estimated, the relative effort is translated into the first estimate of the total effort required by using the idea of ﬁvelocity.ﬂ Velocity is the 
number of effort points implemented by the team, per day. This can be estimated 

either from previous experience or by developing one or two stories to see how 

much time is required. The velocity estimate is approximate but is refined during the 
development process. Once you have a velocity estimate, you can calculate the total 
effort in person-days to implement the system.Release planning involves selecting and refining the stories that will reflect the features to be implemented in a release of a system and the order in which the stories 

should be implemented. The customer has to be involved in this process. A release 
date is then chosen, and the stories are examined to see if the effort estimate is con-
sistent with that date. If not, stories are added or removed from the list.Iteration planning is the first stage in developing a deliverable system increment. 
Stories to be implemented during that iteration are chosen, with the number of stories 

reflecting the time to deliver an workable system (usually 2 or 3 weeks) and the team™s 

velocity. When the delivery date is reached, the development iteration is complete, 

even if all of the stories have not been implemented. The team considers the stories 

that have been implemented and adds up their effort points. The velocity can then be 

recalculated, and this measure is used in planning the next version of the system.At the start of each development iteration, there is a task planning stage where the 
developers break down stories into development tasks. A development task should 
take 4Œ16 hours. All of the tasks that must be completed to implement all of the sto-
ries in that iteration are listed. The individual developers then sign up for the specific ReleaseplanningInitialestimationStoryidentificationIterationplanningTask
planningFigure 23.8 The ﬁplanning gameﬂ