˜˜˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜˜
available, you have to re-analyze the risks and decide if the risk priority has 
changed. You may then have to change your plans for risk avoidance and contin-
gency management.Risk management in agile development is less formal. The same fundamental 
activities should still be followed and risks discussed, although these may not be 

formally documented. Agile development reduces some risks, such as risks from 

requirements changes. However, agile development also has a downside. Because of 
its reliance on people, staff turnover can have significant effects on the project, prod-
uct, and business. Because of the lack of formal documentation and its reliance on 
informal communications, it is very hard to maintain continuity and momentum if 
key people leave the project.˘˘Risk identification is the first stage of the risk management process. It is concerned 
with identifying the risks that could pose a major threat to the software engineering 
process, the software being developed, or the development organization. Risk identi-
fication may be a team process in which a team gets together to brainstorm possible 
risks. Alternatively, project managers may identify risks based on their experience of 
what went wrong on previous projects.As a starting point for risk identification, a checklist of different types of risk may be used. Six types of risk may be included in a risk checklist:1. Estimation risks arise from the management estimates of the resources required to build the system.2. Organizational risks arise from the organizational environment where the soft
-
ware is being developed.3. People risks are associated with the people in the development team.4.
 Requirements risks come from changes to the customer requirements and the 

process of managing the requirements change.5.
 Technology risks come from the software or hardware technologies that are 

used to develop the system.6.
 Tools risks come from the software tools and other support software used to 

develop the system.Figure 22.
3 shows examples of possible risks in each of these categories. When you have finished the risk identification process, you should have a long list of risks 
that could occur and that could affect the product, the process, and the business. You 

then need to prune this list to a manageable size. If you have too many risks, it is 
practically impossible to keep track of all of them.