˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜other parts of the system. If all the members of the group are involved in the design from the start, they are more likely to understand why design decisions have been 
made. They may then identify with these decisions rather than oppose them.˘˘The way a group is organized affects the group™s decisions, the ways information is 

exchanged, and the interactions between the development group and external project 
stakeholders. Important organizational questions for project managers include the 

following:1.
 Should the project manager be the technical leader of the group? The technical 
leader or system architect is responsible for the critical technical decisions made 

during software development. Sometimes the project manager has the skill and 

experience to take on this role. However, for large projects, it is best to separate 

technical and managerial roles. The project manager should appoint a senior engi-
neer to be the project architect, who will take responsibility for technical leadership.
2. Who will be involved in making critical technical decisions, and how will these 
decisions be made? Will decisions be made by the system architect or the pro
-
ject manager or by reaching consensus among a wider range of team members?3.
 How will interactions with external stakeholders and senior company manage-
ment be handled? In many cases, the project manager will be responsible for these 

interactions, assisted by the system architect if there is one. However, an  alternative 
organizational model is to create a dedicated role concerned with external liaison 

and appoint someone with appropriate interaction skills to that role.Figure 22.10 Group compositionCase study: Group compositionIn creating a group for assistive technology development, Alice is aware of the impor-
tance of selecting members with complementary personalities. When interviewing 
potential group members, she tried to assess whether they were task-oriented, self- 

oriented, or interaction-oriented. She felt that she was primarily a self-oriented type 
because she considered the project to be a way of getting noticed by senior manage-

ment and possibly being promoted. She therefore looked for one or perhaps two inter-

action-oriented personalities, with task-oriented individuals to complete the team. The 
final assessment that she arrived at was:AliceŠself-oriented
BrianŠtask-oriented
ChunŠinteraction-oriented
DorothyŠself-oriented
EdŠinteraction-oriented
FionaŠtask-oriented
FredŠtask-oriented
HassanŠinteraction-oriented