˜˜˚˛˙˜˜˜˜˜˜˜
so clinical care is not seriously affected if a full record is not available. Therefore, it is possible to deliver effective care using a summary record that only includes infor-
mation about the patient and recent treatment.The assets required to deliver these services in normal system operations are:1. The patient record database that maintains all patient information.2. A database server that provides access to the database for local client computers.
3. A network for client/server communications.4. Local laptop or desktop computers used by clinicians to access patient information.5. A set of rules that identify patients who are potentially dangerous and that can˜flag 

patient records. Client software highlights dangerous patients to  system users.To plan recognition, resistance, and recovery strategies, you need to develop a set of scenarios that anticipate adverse events that might compromise the critical ser-vices offered by the system. Examples of these adverse events are:1.
 The unavailability of the database server either through a system failure, a 
 network failure, or a denial-of-service cyberattack.2.
 The deliberate or accidental corruption of the patient record database or the 
rules that define what is meant by a ﬁdangerous patient.ﬂ3. Infection of client computers with malware.4. Access to client computers by unauthorized people who gain access to patient records.Figure 14.
11 shows possible recognition and resistance strategies for these 
adverse events. Notice that these are not just technical approaches but also include 

workshops to inform system users about security issues. We know that many secu-
rity breaches arise because users inadvertently reveal privileged information to an 

attacker and these workshops reduce the chances of this happening. I don™t have 

space here to discuss all of the options that I identified in Figure 14.11. Instead, I 

focus on how the system architecture can be modified to be more resilient.In Figure 14.11, I suggested that maintaining patient information on client com-puters was a possible redundancy strategy that could help maintain critical services. 
This leads to the modified software architecture shown in Figure 
14.
12. The key 
features of this architecture are:1. Summary patient records that are maintained on local client computers The 
local computers can communicate directly with each other and exchange infor-
mation using either the system network or, if necessary, an ad hoc network cre-
ated using mobile phones. Therefore, if the database is unavailable, doctors and 

nurses can still access essential patient information. (resistance and recovery)2. A backup server to allow for main server failure This server is responsible for 
taking regular snapshots of the database as backups. In the event the main server 