˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜ensure that only traffic from trusted sources is allowed to pass from the external Internet into the local organizational network.A set of controls in an organization provides a layered protection system. An 
attacker has to get through all of the protection layers for the attack to succeed. 

However, there is a trade-off between protection and efficiency. As the number of 
layers of protection increases, the system slows down. The protection systems con-
sume an increasing amount of memory and processor resources, leaving less availa-
ble to do useful work. The more security, the more inconvenient it is for˜users and 

the more likely that they will adopt insecure practices to increase system usability.As with other aspects of system dependability, the fundamental means of protect-ing against cyberattacks depends on redundancy and diversity. Recall that redun-
dancy means having spare capacity and duplicated resources in a system. Diversity 
means that different types of equipment, software, and procedures are used so that 
common failures are less likely to occur across a number of systems. Examples of 
where redundancy and diversity are valuable for cyber-resilience are:1. For each system, copies of data and software should be maintained on separate computer systems. Shared disks should be avoided if possible. This supports 

recovery after a successful cyberattack (recovery and reinstatement).2. Multi-stage diverse authentication can protect against password attacks. As well 
as login/password authentication, additional authentication steps may be 

involved that require users to provide some personal information or a code gen-
erated by their mobile device (resistance).3.
 Critical servers may be overprovisioned; that is, they may be more powerful 

than is required to handle their expected load. The spare capacity means that 

attacks may be resisted without necessarily degrading the normal response of 

the server. Furthermore, if other servers are damaged, spare capacity is available 

to run their software while they are being repaired (resistance and recovery).Planning for cybersecurity has to be based on assets and controls and the 4 Rs of resil-ience engineeringŠrecognition, resistance, recovery, and reinstatement. Figure 
14.
2 shows a planning process that may be followed. The key stages in this process are:1. Asset classification The organization™s hardware, software, and human assets 
are examined and classified depending on how essential they are to normal 

operations. They may be classed as critical, important, or useful.2. Threat identification For each of the assets (or at least the critical and important 

assets), you should identify and classify threats to that asset. In some cases, you 

may try to estimate the probability that a threat will arise, but such estimates are 

often inaccurate as you don™t have enough information about potential attackers.3. Threat recognition For each threat or, sometimes asset/threat pair, you should 
identify how an attack based on that threat might be recognized. You may 
