process improvements have been effective. As you introduce improvements, you 
re-measure the same attributes, which will hopefully have improved in some way.2. Process analysis The current process is assessed, and process weaknesses and 
bottlenecks are identified. Process models (sometimes called process maps) that 
describe the process may be developed during this stage. The analysis may be 

focused by considering process characteristics such as rapidity and robustness.3. Process change Process changes are proposed to address some of the identified 
process weaknesses. These are introduced, and the cycle resumes to collect data 
about the effectiveness of the changes.Without concrete data on a process or the software developed using that process, it 
is impossible to assess the value of process improvement. However, companies starting 

the process improvement process are unlikely to have process data available as an 

improvement baseline. Therefore, as part of the first cycle of changes, you may have to 

collect data about the software process and to measure software product characteristics.
Process improvement is a long-term activity, so each of the stages in the improve-ment process may last several months. It is also a continuous activity as, whatever 
new processes are introduced, the business environment will change and the new 

processes will themselves have to evolve to take these changes into account.The notion of process maturity was introduced in the late 1980s when the 
Software Engineering Institute (SEI) proposed their model of process capability 

maturity (Humphrey 1988). The maturity of a software company™s processes reflects 
the process management, measurement, and use of good software engineering prac-
tices in the company. This idea was introduced so that the U.S. Department of 

Defense could assess the software engineering capability of defense contractors, 

with a view to limiting contracts to those contractors who had reached a required 

level of process maturity. Five levels of process maturity were proposed. as shown in 
Figure 2.
12. These have evolved and developed over the last 25 years (Chrissis, 

Konrad, and Shrum 2011), but the fundamental ideas in Humphrey™s model are still 
the basis of software process maturity assessment.The levels in the process maturity model are:1. Initial The goals associated with the process area are satisfied, and for all pro-cesses the scope of the work to be performed is explicitly set out and communi-
cated to the team members.2. Managed At this level, the goals associated with the process area are met, and organ
-izational policies are in place that define when each process should be used. There 

must be documented project plans that define the project goals. Resource manage
-
ment and process monitoring procedures must be in place across the institution.3. Defined This level focuses on organizational standardization and deployment of 
processes. Each project has a managed process that is adapted to the project require-ments from a defined set of organizational processes. Process assets and process 

measurements must be collected and used for future process improvements.˜˜˚˙˜˜˜
˜˜
