description is then used to build a system automatically by compiling and link-ing the required components.3. Problem tracking, where support is provided to allow users to report bugs and 
other problems, and to allow all developers to see who is working on these prob-
lems and when they are fixed.4. Release management, where new versions of a software system are released to 
customers. Release management is concerned with planning the functionality of 
new releases and organizing the software for distribution.Software configuration management tools support each of the above activities. 
These tools are usually installed in an integrated development environment, such as 

Eclipse. Version management may be supported using a version management system 

such as Subversion (Pilato, Collins-Sussman, and Fitzpatrick 2008) or Git (Loeliger 

and McCullough 2012), which can support multi-site, multi-team development. 

System integration support may be built into the language or rely on a separate tool
-
set such as the GNU build system. Bug tracking or issue tracking systems, such as 

Bugzilla, are used to report bugs and other issues and to keep track of whether or not 

these have been fixed. A comprehensive set of tools built around the Git system is 

available at Github (http://github.com).Because of its importance in professional software engineering, I discuss change and configuration management in more detail in Chapter 25.ˇˇMost professional software development is based on a host-target model (Figure 7.15). 

Software is developed on one computer (the host) but runs on a separate machine (the 

target). More generally, we can talk about a development platform (host) and an 
 execution platform (target). A platform is more than just hardware. It includes the 

installed operating system plus other supporting software such as a database manage-
ment system or, for development platforms, an interactive development environment.Development platformIDECompilersTesting tools
ExecutionplatformLibrariesRelated systemsDatabasesDevelopment platformIDECompilersTesting tools
Target
HostDownloadsoftwareFigure 7.15 Host-target development˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜˜