˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜
˜˜
Unfortunately, these proved to be conflicting goals because the information that 
was needed to satisfy the reporting goal meant that doctors and nurses had to provide 
additional information, over and above the health records that they normally main-
tained. This reduced the quality of care for patients as it meant that clinical staff 

had˜less time to talk with them. From a doctor™s perspective, this system was not 

an˜improvement on the previous manual system, but from a manager™s perspective, 

it was.Thus, any success criteria that are established in the early stages of the systems engineering process have to be regularly reconsidered during system development 

and use. You cannot evaluate these criteria objectively as they depend on the sys-
tem™s effect on its environment and its users. A system may apparently meet its 

requirements as originally specified but be practically useless because of changes in 

the environment where it is used.Once an idea for a system has been suggested, conceptual design is the very first 

thing that you do in the systems engineering process. In the conceptual design phase, 
you take that initial idea, investigate its feasibility, and develop it to create an overall 
vision of a system that could be developed. You then have to describe the envisaged 
system so that nonexperts, such as system users, senior company decision makers, or 
politicians, can understand what you are proposing.There is an obvious overlap between conceptual design and requirements 
 engineering. As part of the conceptual design process, you have to imagine how the 
proposed system will be used. This may involve discussions with potential users and 
other stakeholders, focus groups, and observations of how existing systems are used. 

The goal of these activities is to understand how users work, what is important to 

them, and what practical constraints on the system there might be.The importance of establishing a vision of a proposed system is rarely mentioned in the software design and requirements literature. However, this vision has been 

part of the systems engineering process for military systems for many years. Fairley 

et al. (Fairley, Thayer, and Bjorke 1994) discuss the idea of concept analysis and the 
documentation of the results of concept analysis in a ﬁConcept of Operationsﬂ 

(ConOps) document. This idea of developing a ConOps document is now widely 

used for large-scale systems, and you can find many examples of ConOps documents 
on the web.Unfortunately, as is so often the case with military and government systems, good ideas can become mired in bureaucracy and inflexible standards. This is exactly what 

happened with ConOps, and a ConOps document standard was proposed (IEEE, 

2007). As Mostashari et al. say (Mostashari et al. 2012), this tends to lead to long and 
unreadable documents, which do not serve their intended purpose. They propose a 
more agile approach to the development of a ConOps document with a shorter and 

more flexible document as the output of the process.