˜˜˜˚˜˜˜˜
˜˜
In this example, Alice tries to find out if Dorothy™s personal circumstances could be the problem. Personal difficulties commonly affect motivation because people 
cannot therefore concentrate on their work. You may have to give them time and 

support to resolve these issues, although you also have to make it clear that they still 

have a responsibility to their employer.Dorothy™s motivation problem is one that can arise when projects develop in an unexpected direction. People who expect to do one type of work may end up doing 
something completely different. In those circumstances, you may decide that the 

team member should leave the team and find opportunities elsewhere. In this 
 example, however, Alice decides to try to convince Dorothy that broadening her 

experience is a positive career step. She gives Dorothy more design autonomy and 

organizes training courses in software engineering that will give her more opportuni-
ties after her current project has finished.Psychological personality type also influences motivation. Bass and Dunteman 
(Bass and Dunteman 1963) identified three classifications for professional workers:1. Task-oriented people, 
who are motivated by the work they do. In software engi
-neering, these are people who are motivated by the intellectual challenge of soft-
ware development.Figure 22.8 Individual motivationCase study: MotivationAlice is a software project manager working in a company that develops alarm systems. 
This company wishes to enter the growing market of assistive technology to help elderly 

and disabled people live independently. Alice has been asked to lead a team of six 

developers that can develop new products based on the company™s alarm technology.Alice™s assistive technology project starts well. Good working relationships develop within the team, and  creative new ideas are developed. The team decides to develop a system that a user can initiate and control the alarm system from a cell phone or tablet 
computer. However, some months into the project, Alice notices that Dorothy, a hard-

ware expert, starts coming into work late, that the quality of her work is deteriorating, 
and, increasingly, that she does not appear to be communicating with other members 
of the team.Alice talks about the problem informally with other team members to try to find out if Dorothy™s personal  circumstances have changed and if this might be affecting her work. They don™t know of anything, so Alice decides to talk with Dorothy to try to 
understand the problem.After some initial denials of any problem, Dorothy admits that she has lost interest in the job. She expected that she would be able to develop and use her hardware 
interfacing skills. However, because of the product direction that has been chosen, she 
has little opportunity to use these skills. Basically, she is working as a C  programmer on the alarm system software.While she admits that the work is challenging, she is concerned that she is not developing her interfacing skills. She is worried that finding a job that involves hard-

ware interfacing will be difficult after this project. Because she does not want to upset 
the team by revealing that she is thinking about the next project, she has decided that 
it is best to minimize conversation with them.