4. Safety-related events are accidental and are not created by an intelligent adver-sary. An attacker can probe a system™s defenses in a series of attacks, modifying 

the attacks as he or she learns more about the system and its responses.These distinctions mean that security requirements have to be more extensive 
than safety requirements. Safety requirements lead to the generation of functional 

system requirements that provide protection against events and faults that could 

cause safety-related failures. These requirements are mostly concerned with check-
ing for problems and taking actions if these problems occur. By contrast, many types 
of security requirements cover the different threats faced by a system.Firesmith (Firesmith 2003) identified 10 types of security requirements that may be included in a system specification:1. Identification requirements specify whether or not a system should identify its 
users before interacting with them.2. Authentication requirements specify how users are identified.3.
 Authorization requirements specify the privileges and access permissions of 

identified users.4.
 Immunity requirements specify how a system should protect itself against 

viruses, worms, and similar threats.5. Integrity requirements specify how data corruption can be avoided.6.
 Intrusion detection requirements specify what mechanisms should be used to 

detect attacks on the system.7. Nonrepudiation requirements specify that a party in a transaction cannot deny 

its involvement in that transaction.8. Privacy requirements specify how data privacy is to be maintained.9.
 Security auditing requirements specify how system use can be audited and 

checked.10. System maintenance security requirements specify how an application can pre-
vent authorized changes from accidentally defeating its security mechanisms.Of course, you will not see all of these types of security requirements in every 
system. The particular requirements depend on the type of system, the situation of 
use, and the expected users.Preliminary risk assessment and analysis aim to identify the generic security risks 
for a system and its associated data. This risk assessment is an important input to the 

security requirements engineering process. Security requirements can be proposed to 

support the general risk management strategies of avoidance, detection and mitigation.1. Risk avoidance requirements set out the risks that should be avoided by design
-ing the system so that these risks simply cannot arise.˜˜˚˛˚˜˜˜
˜˜
