˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜power to a battery backup. Figure 21.15 presents a timeline showing the events in 
the system:1. Assume that, after a mains power failure event, it takes 50 milliseconds (ms) 
for the supplied voltage to drop to a level where the equipment may be dam-aged. The battery backup must therefore be activated and in operation within 

50 ms. Usually, you allow for a margin of error, so you should set a shorter 

deadline of 40 ms because of physical variations in the equipment. This 

means that all equipment must be running on the battery backup power sup-ply within 40 ms.2.
 However, the battery backup system cannot be instantaneously activated. It 

takes 16 ms from starting the backup power supply to the supply being fully 

operational. This means that the time available to detect the power failure and 

start the battery backup system is 24 ms.3.
 There is a process that is scheduled to run 250 times per second, that is, every 4 ms. 

This process assumes that there is a power supply problem if a significant drop 
in voltage occurs between readings and is sustained for three readings. This time 
is allowed so that temporary fluctuations do not cause a switch to the battery 

backup system.4.
 In the above timeline, the power fails immediately after a reading has been 

taken. Therefore, reading R1 is the start reading for the power fail check. The 
voltage continues to drop for readings R2ŒR4, so a power failure is assumed. 
This is the worst possible case, where a power failure event occurs immediately 
after a sensor check, so 16 ms have elapsed since that event.5. At this stage, the process that switches to the battery backup is started. Because 
the battery backup takes 16 ms to become operational, the worst-case execution 

time for this process is 8 ms, so that the 40 ms deadline can be reached.4ms8ms12ms16ms20ms24ms28ms32ms36ms40ms
R1R2R3R4
Battery startup
Power switcherNormal voltagelevelCritical voltagelevelTime
Voltage
Figure 21.15  Power failure timing 
analysis 