˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜develops tests and assists with the testing process. For critical systems, a more for-mal process may be used, with a separate testing group within the development team. 
This group is responsible for developing tests and maintaining detailed records of 

test results.There are three stages of development testing:1. Unit testing, where individual program units or object classes are tested. Unit 

testing should focus on testing the functionality of objects or methods.2. Component testing, where several individual units are integrated to create com-
posite components. Component testing should focus on testing the component 
interfaces that provide access to the component functions.3. System testing, where some or all of the components in a system are integrated 
and the system is tested as a whole. System testing should focus on testing com
-
ponent interactions.Development testing is primarily a defect testing process, where the aim of test-ing is to discover bugs in the software. It is therefore usually interleaved with 

debuggingŠthe process of locating problems with the code and changing the pro-
gram to fix these problems.Unit testing is the process of testing program components, such as methods or object 
classes. Individual functions or methods are the simplest type of component. Your 
tests should be calls to these routines with different input parameters. You can use 
the approaches to test-case design discussed in Section 8.1.2 to design the function 
or method tests.When you are testing object classes, you should design your tests to provide cov-erage of all of the features of the object. This means that you should test all opera-
tions associated with the object; set and check the value of all attributes associated 
with the object; and put the object into all possible states. This means that you should 

simulate all events that cause a state change.Consider, for example, the weather station object from the example that I discussed 
in Chapter 7. The attributes and operations of this object are shown in Figure 8.4. 
DebuggingDebugging is the process of fixing errors and problems that have been discovered by testing. Using information 
from the program tests, debuggers use their knowledge of the programming language and the intended out-

come of the test to locate and repair the program error. When you are debugging a program, you usually use 
interactive tools that provide extra information about program execution.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/debugging/