˜˜˚˛˝˜˜˜
˜˜
While each framework includes slightly different functionality, web application frameworks usually provide components and classes that support:1. Security WAFs may include classes to help implement user authentication 
(login) and access control to ensure that users can only access permitted func-tionality in the system.2. Dynamic web pages Classes are provided to help you define web page templates 
and to populate these dynamically with specific data from the system database.3. Database integration 
Frameworks don™t usually include a database but assume 

that a separate database, such as MySQL, will be used. The framework may 

include classes that provide an abstract interface to different databases.4. Session management Classes to create and manage sessions (a number of inter-
actions with the system by a user) are usually part of a WAF.5. User interaction Web frameworks provide AJAX (Holdener 2008) and/or 

HTML5 support (Sarris 2013), which allows interactive web pages to be cre-ated. They may include classes that allow device-independent interfaces to be 
created, which adapt automatically to mobile phones and tablets.To implement a system using a framework, you add concrete classes that inherit operations from abstract classes in the framework. In addition, you define 

ﬁcallbacksﬂ Šmethods that are called in response to events recognized by the frame-work. The framework objects, rather than the application-specific objects, are 

responsible for control in the system. Schmidt et al
. (Schmidt, Gokhale, and 
Natarajan 2004) call this ﬁinversion of control.ﬂIn response to events from the user interface and database framework objects 
invoke ﬁhook methodsﬂ that are then linked to user-provided functionality. The user-
provided functionality defines how the application should respond to the event 

(Figure 15.
6). For example, a framework will have a method that handles a mouse 
click from the environment. This method is called the hook method, which you must 
configure to call the appropriate application methods to handle the mouse click.Application-specific classesGUI
DatabaseEventloopCallbacksEventloopPlatformEventloopCallbacksCallbacksFigure 15.6 Inversion of control in frameworks 