˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜supports the user interface and the bottom layer is the system database. The user 
communications layer handles all input and output from the user interface, and the 
information retrieval layer includes application-specific logic for accessing and 

updating the database. The layers in this model can map directly onto servers in a 
distributed Internet-based system.As an example of an instantiation of this layered model, Figure 
6.19 shows the architecture of the Mentcare system. Recall that this system maintains and manages 
details of patients who are consulting specialist doctors about mental health prob-lems. I have added detail to each layer in the model by identifying the components 
that support user communications and information retrieval and access:1. The top layer is a browser-based user interface.2.
 The second layer provides the user interface functionality that is delivered 
through the web browser. It includes components to allow users to log in to the 
system and checking components that ensure that the operations they use are 

allowed by their role. This layer includes form and menu management compo-
nents that present information to users, and data validation components that 

check information consistency.3.
 The third layer implements the functionality of the system and provides 
 components that implement system security, patient information creation and 

updating, import and export of patient data from other databases, and report 

generators that create management reports.4. Finally, the lowest layer, which is built using a commercial database manage
-
ment system, provides transaction management and persistent data storage.Information and resource management systems are sometimes also transaction pro
-
cessing systems. For example, e-commerce systems are Internet-based resource 

management systems that accept electronic orders for goods or services and then 

arrange delivery of these goods or services to the customer
. In an e-commerce 
Web browser
Report
generationTransaction management
Patient database
Login
Form and menu
managerDatavalidationRole checkingSecuritymanagementPatient info.
managerData import
and exportFigure 6.19 The architecture of the 
Mentcare system