˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜4. A set of business rules that apply to all data in the database. Therefore, when 
data is input from one function, these rules should ensure that it is consistent 

with the data required by other functions. For example, a business rule may 

require that all expense claims have to be approved by someone more senior 

than the person making the claim.ERP systems are used in almost all large companies to support some or all of their functions. They are, therefore, a very widely used form of software reuse. The obvi-
ous limitation of this approach to reuse is that the functionality of the customer™s 

application is restricted to the functionality of the ERP system™s built-in modules. If 

a company needs additional functionality, it may have to develop a separate add-on 
system to provide this functionality.Furthermore, the buyer company™s processes and operations have to be defined in the ERP system™s configuration language. This language embeds the understanding 
of business processes as seen by the system vendor, and there may be a mismatch 
between these assumptions and the concepts and processes used in the customer™s 
business. A serious mismatch between the customer™s business model and the sys-
tem model used by the ERP system makes it highly probable that the ERP system 
will not meet the customer™s real needs (Scott 1999).For example, in an ERP system that was sold to a university, a fundamental system 
concept was the notion of a customer. In this system, a customer was an external agent 

that bought goods and services from a supplier. This concept caused great difficulties 

when configuring the system. Universities do not really have customers. Rather, they 

have customer-type relationships with a range of people and organizations such as 

students, research funding agencies, and educational charities. None of these relation-
ships is compatible with a customer relationship where a person or business buys prod-
ucts or services from another. In this particular case, it took several months to resolve 

this mismatch, and the final solution only partially met the university™s requirements.ERP systems usually require extensive configuration to adapt them to the require
-ments of each organization where they are installed. This configuration may involve:1. Selecting the required functionality from the system, for example, by deciding what modules should be included.2. Establishing a data model that defines how the organization™s data will be struc-
tured in the system database.3. Defining business rules that apply to that data.4. Defining the expected interactions with external systems.5. Designing the input forms and the output reports generated by the system.6. Designing new business processes that conform to the underlying process model 
supported by the system.7.
 Setting parameters that define how the system is deployed on its underlying 

platform.