˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
˜Ethnography is helpful to understand existing systems, but this understanding 
does not always help with innovation. Innovation is particularly relevant for new 
product development. Commentators have suggested that Nokia used ethnography 
to discover how people used their phones and developed new phone models on that 
basis; Apple, on the other hand, ignored current use and revolutionized the mobile 
phone industry with the introduction of the iPhone.Ethnographic studies can reveal critical process details that are often missed by other requirements elicitation techniques. However, because of its focus on the end-
user, this approach is not effective for discovering broader organizational or domain 
requirements or for suggestion innovations. You therefore have to use ethnography 

as one of a number of techniques for requirements elicitation.

People find it easier to relate to real-life examples than abstract descriptions. They 

are not good at telling you the system requirements. However, they may be able to 
describe how they handle particular situations or imagine things that they might do 
in a new way of working. Stories and scenarios are ways of capturing this kind of 
information. You can then use these when interviewing groups of stakeholders to 

discuss the system with other stakeholders and to develop more specific system 

requirements.Stories and scenarios are essentially the same thing. They are a description of how 
the system can be used for some particular task. They describe what people do, what 

information they use and produce, and what systems they may use in this process. 

The difference is in the ways that descriptions are structured and in the level of detail 

presented. Stories are written as narrative text and present a high-level description of 

system use; scenarios are usually structured with specific information collected such 

as inputs and outputs. I find stories to be effective in setting out the ﬁbig picture.ﬂ 

Parts of stories can then be developed in more detail and represented as scenarios.Figure 4.
9 is an example of a story that I developed to understand the requirements 
for the iLearn digital learning environment that I introduced in Chapter 1. This story 

describes a situation in a primary (elementary) school where the teacher is using the 

environment to support student projects on the fishing industry. You can see this is a 

very high-level description. Its purpose is to facilitate discussion of how the iLearn 

system might be used and to act as a starting point for eliciting the requirements for 

that system.Ethnographicanalysis
Debriefing
meetingsFocused
ethnographyPrototype
evaluation
Generic systemdevelopment
System
protoyping
Figure 4.8 Ethnography and prototyping for 
requirements analysis