˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˜˜˜
˜ˇ
˜scrapingﬂ process where your program extracts information from the HTML text of 
web pages that are sent to a browser for rendering.

Workflow design involves analyzing existing or planned business processes to 

understand the tasks involved and how these tasks exchange information. You then 

define the new business process in a workflow design notation. This sets out the 

stages involved in enacting the process and the information that is passed between 

the different process stages. However, existing processes may be informal and 

dependent on the skills and ability of the people involved. There may be no ﬁnormalﬂ 

way of working or process definition. In such cases, you have to use your knowledge 

of the current process to design a workflow that achieves the same goals.
Workflows represent business process models. They are graphical models that are 
written using UML activity diagrams or BPMN, the Business Process Modeling Notation 

(White and Miers 2008; OMG 2011). I use BPMN for the examples in this 
chapter. If 
you use SOAP-based services, it is possible to convert BPMN workflows automatically 

into WS-BPEL, an XML-based workflow language. This is conformant with other web 

service standards such as SOAP and WSDL. RESTful services may be composed within 

a program in a standard programming language such as Java. Alternatively, a composi
-
tion language used for service mashups may be used (Rosenberg et al. 2008).
Figure 18.
15 is an example of a simple BPMN model of part of the vacation pack
-age scenario, shown in Figure 
18.14. The model shows a simplified workflow for 
hotel booking and assumes the existence of a 
Hotels service with associated opera-tions called GetRequirements, CheckAvailability
, ReserveRooms, NoAvailability
, ConfirmReservation, and CancelReservation. The process involves getting require
-ments from the customer, checking room availability, and then, if rooms are availa
-
ble, making a booking for the required dates.This model introduces some of the core concepts of BPMN that are used to create 
workflow models:
1.
 Rectangles with rounded corners represent activities. An activity can be exe
-cuted by a human or by an automated service.2. Circles represent discrete events. An event is something that happens during a 
business process. A simple circle is used to represent a starting event and a 

darker circle to represent an end event. A double circle (not shown) is used to 

represent an intermediate event. Events can be clock events, thus allowing work
-
flows to be executed periodically or timed out.
3. A diamond is used to represent a gateway. A gateway is a stage in the process 

where some choice is made. For example, in Figure 
18.15, a choice is made on 
the basis of whether or not rooms are available.
4. A solid arrow shows the sequence of activities; a dashed arrow represents mes
-
sage flow between activities. In Figure 
18.15, these messages are passed 

between the hotel booking service and the customer.
