˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜To create a new instance of this system, you may have to modify individual com-ponents. For example, the police have a large number of vehicles but a relatively 
small number of vehicle types. By contrast, the fire service has many types of spe-
cialized vehicles but relatively few vehicles. Therefore, when you are implementing 
a system for these different services, you may have to define a different vehicle 

database structure.Various types of specialization of a software product line may be developed:1. Platform specialization Versions of the application may be developed for differ-
ent platforms. For example, versions of the application may exist for Windows, 
Mac OS, and Linux platforms. In this case, the functionality of the application is 
normally unchanged; only those components that interface with the hardware 

and operating system are modified.2. Environment specialization Versions of the application may be created to handle 

different operating environments and peripheral devices. For example, a system 

for the emergency services may exist in different versions, depending on the 

communications hardware used by each service. For example, police radios may 

have built-in encryption that has to be used. The product-line components are 

changed to reflect the functionality and characteristics of the equipment used.3. Functional specialization Versions of the application may be created for specific 

customers who have different requirements. For example, a library automation 

system may be modified depending on whether it is used in a public library, a 

reference library, or a university library. In this case, components that implement 

functionality may be modified and new components added to the system.4. Process specialization The system may be adapted to cope with specific business 

processes. For example, an ordering system may be adapted to cope with a central-
ized ordering process in one company and with a distributed process in another.Figure 15.
10 shows the process for extending a software product line to create a new application. The activities in this process are:1. Elicit stakeholder requirements You may start with a normal requirements engi-neering process. However, because a system already exists, you can demon-
strate the system and have stakeholders experiment with it, expressing their 

requirements as modifications to the functions provided.ElicitstakeholderrequirementsChooseclosest-fitsystem instanceDeliver newsystem instanceRenegotiaterequirementsAdapt existingsystemFigure 15.10 Product instance development 