˜˜˜˚˝˜˜˜˜
2. Group structure People in informally structured groups communicate more 
effectively than people in groups with a formal, hierarchical structure. In hierar
-
chical groups, communications tend to flow up and down the hierarchy. People 
at the same level may not talk to each other. This is a particular problem in a 
large project with several development groups. If people working on different 
subsystems only communicate through their managers, then there are more 

likely to be delays and misunderstandings.3. Group composition People with the same personality types (discussed in 

Section˜22.
2) may clash, and, as a result, communications can be inhibited. 

Communication is also usually better in mixed-sex groups than in single-sex 

groups (Marshall and Heslin 1975). Women are often more interaction-oriented 
than men and may act as interaction controllers and facilitators for the group.4. The physical work environment The organization of the workplace is a major factor 

in facilitating or inhibiting communications. While some companies use standard 

open-plan offices for their staff, others invest in providing a workspace that includes 

a mixture of private and group working areas. This allows for both collaborative 

activities and individual development that require a high level of˜concentration.5. The available communication channels 
There are many different forms of 
 communicationŠface to face, email messages, formal documents, telephone, 

and technologies such as social networking and wikis. As project teams become 
increasingly distributed, with team members working remotely, you need to 

make use of interaction technologies, such as conferencing systems, to facilitate 
group communications.Project managers usually work to tight deadlines, and, consequently, they often try 
to use communication channels that don™t take up too much of their time. They may 

rely on meetings and formal documents to pass on information to project staff and 

stakeholders and send long emails to project staff. Unfortunately, while this may be an 

efficient approach to communication from a project manager™s perspective, it is not 

usually very effective. There are often good reasons why people can™t attend meetings, 

and so they don™t hear the presentation. People do not have time to read long docu-
ments and emails that are not directly relevant to their work. When several versions of 

the same document are produced, readers find it difficult to keep track of the changes.The physical work environmentGroup communications and individual productivity are both affected by the team™s working environment.  Individual workspaces are better for concentration on detailed technical work as people are less likely to be  distracted by interruptions. However, shared workspaces are better for communications. A well-designed work 
environment takes both of these needs into account.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/workspace/