˜˜˚ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜
User or customer testing is a stage in the testing process in which users or customers 
provide input and advice on system testing. This may involve formally testing a sys
-
tem that has been commissioned from an external supplier. Alternatively, it may be 

an informal process where users experiment with a new software product to see if 
they like it and to check that it does what they need. User testing is essential, even 
when comprehensive system and release testing have been carried out. Influences 

from the user™s working environment can have a major effect on the reliability, per-
formance, usability, and robustness of a system.It is practically impossible for a system developer to replicate the system™s work-ing environment, as tests in the developer™s environment are inevitably artificial. For 
example, a system that is intended for use in a hospital is used in a clinical environ-
ment where other things are going on, such as patient emergencies and conversations 
with relatives. These all affect the use of a system, but developers cannot include 

them in their testing environment.There are three different types of user testing:1. Alpha testing
, where a selected group of software users work closely with the 

development team to test early releases of the software.2. Beta testing, where a release of the software is made available to a larger group 
of users to allow them to experiment and to raise problems that they discover 

with the system developers.3. Acceptance testing, where customers test a system to decide whether or not it is ready 

to be accepted from the system developers and deployed in the customer environment.In alpha testing, users and developers work together to test a system as it is being 
developed. This means that the users can identify problems and issues that are not 
readily apparent to the development testing team. Developers can only really work 
from the requirements, but these often do not reflect other factors that affect the 

practical use of the software. Users can therefore provide information about practice 
that helps with the design of more realistic tests.Alpha testing is often used when developing software products or apps. Experienced 
users of these products may be willing to get involved in the alpha testing process 

because this gives them early information about new system features that they can 

exploit. It also reduces the risk that unanticipated changes to the software will have 

disruptive effects on their business. However, alpha testing may also be used when 

custom software is being developed. Agile development methods advocate user 

involvement in the development process, and that users should play a key role in 

designing tests for the system.Beta testing takes place when an early, sometimes unfinished, release of a  software 
system is made available to a larger group of customers and users for 
 evaluation. 
Beta testers may be a selected group of customers who are early adopters of the system. 
