˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜˜to make their functionality accessible to system users. Figure 
20.12 illustrates a con
-tainer system with three common services and six included systems. The systems 
that are included may be selected from an approved list of systems and need not be 

aware that they are included in the container. This pattern of SoS is most often 

observed in federated systems or system coalitions.The iLearn environment is a system in a container. There are common services that support authentication, storage of user data, and system configuration. Other 

functionality comes from choosing existing systems such as a newspaper archive or 
a virtual learning environment and integrating these into the container.Of course, you don™t place systems into a real container to implement these systems 
of systems. Rather, for each approved system, there is a separate interface that allows 

it to be integrated with the common services. This interface manages the translation of 

the common services provided by the container and the requirements of the integrated 

system. It may also be possible to include systems that are not approved. However, 

these will not have access to the common services provided by the container.Figure 20.
13 illustrates this integration. This graphic is a simplified version of 
iLearn that provides three common services:1. An authentication service that provides a single sign-in to all approved systems. Users do not have to maintain separate credentials for these systems.2. A storage service for user data. This service can be seamlessly transferred to and 
from approved systems.3. A configuration service that is used to include or remove systems from the container.This example shows a version of iLearn for Physics. As well as an office productivity 
system (Office 365) and a VLE (Moodle), this system includes simulation and data anal
-
ysis systems. Other systemsŠYouTube and a science encyclopediaŠare also part of this 

system. However, these are not ﬁapproved,ﬂ and so no container interface is available. 

Users must log on to these systems separately and organize their own data transfers.Included systemsContainer systemCommon service 1Common service 2Common service 3s1s2s3
s4s5s6
Figure 20.12 Systems in a container 