˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜required five times as much effort as originally predicted. The schedule was 
extended to two years rather than the predicted six months. In a retrospective analysis of their work 10 years later, Garlan et al. (Garlan, 

Allen, and Ockerbloom 2009) concluded that the integration problems that they 
discovered had not been solved. Torchiano and Morisio (Torchiano and Morisio 
2004) found that lack of compliance with standards in many application systems 

meant that integration was more difficult than anticipated.3. No control over system evolution Vendors of application systems make their own 

decisions on system changes, in response to market pressures. For PC products in 

particular, new versions are often produced frequently and may not be compatible 

with all previous versions. New versions may have additional unwanted function-
ality, and previous versions may become unavailable and unsupported.4. Support from system vendors The level of support available from system 
 vendors varies widely. Vendor support is particularly important when problems 
arise as developers do not have access to the source code and detailed documen-
tation of the system. While vendors may commit to providing support, changing 
market and economic circumstances may make it difficult for them to deliver 
this commitment. For example, a system vendor may decide to discontinue a 

product because of limited demand, or they may be taken over by another com-
pany that does not wish to support the products that have been acquired.Boehm and Abts reckon that, in many cases, the cost of system maintenance and 
evolution may be greater for integrated application systems. The above difficulties 

are life-cycle problems; they don™t just affect the initial development of the system. 

The further removed the people involved in the system maintenance become from 

the original system developers, the more likely it is that difficulties will arise with the 

integrated system.˜˝˜˝

˜˝

