˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˜˜˜
˜User stories are effective because, as already noted, readers can relate to them; in 
addition, they can show the capabilities of the proposed system in an easily accessi-ble way. Of course, these are only part of a system vision, and the summary must 
also include a high-level description of the basic assumptions made and the ways in 
which the system will deliver value to the organization.System procurement or system acquisition is a process whose outcome is a decision 
to buy one or more systems from system suppliers. At this stage, decisions are made 
on the scope of a system that is to be purchased, system budgets and timescales, and 
high-level system requirements. Using this information, further decisions are then 

made on whether to procure a system, the type of system required, and the supplier 
or suppliers of the system. The drivers for these decisions are:1. The replacement of other organizational systems 
If the organization has a mix
-ture of systems that cannot work together or that are expensive to maintain, then procuring a replacement system, with additional capabilities, may lead to 
 significant business benefits.2. The need to comply with external regulations Increasingly, businesses are regu-
lated and have to demonstrate compliance with externally defined regulations 

(e.g., SarbanesŒOxley accounting regulations in the United States). Compliance 
may require the replacement of noncompliant systems or the provision of new 
systems specifically to monitor compliance.Figure 19.8 A user story used in a system vision 
documentDigital artJill is an S2 pupil at a secondary school in Dundee. She has a smartphone of her own, and the family has a shared Samsung tablet and a Dell laptop computer. At school, Jill signs on to the school computer and is pre-

sented with a personalized Glow+ environment, which includes a range of services, some chosen by her teach-

ers and some she has chosen herself from the Glow app library.She is working on a Celtic art project, and she uses Google to research a range of art sites. She sketches out some designs on paper and then uses the camera on her phone to photograph what she has done; she uploads 
this using the school wifi to her personal Glow+ space. Her homework is to complete the design and write a 
short commentary on her ideas.At home, she uses the family tablet to sign on to Glow+, and she then uses an artwork app to process her photograph and to extend the work, add color, and so on. She finishes this part of the work, and to complete it 
she moves to her home laptop to type up her commentary. She uploads the finished work to Glow+ and sends 
a message to her art teacher that it is available for review. Her teacher looks at the project in a free period 
before Jill™s next art class using a school tablet, and, in class, she discusses the work with Jill.After the discussion, the teacher and Jill decide that the work should be shared, and so they publish it to the school web pages that show examples of students™ work. In addition, the work is included in Jill™s e-portfolioŠ
her record of schoolwork from age 3 to 18.