˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜2. Self-oriented people, who are principally motivated by personal success and 
recognition. They are interested in software development as a means of achiev-
ing their own goals. They often have longer-term goals, such as career progres-
sion, that motivate them, and they wish to be successful in their work to help 
realize these goals.3. Interaction-oriented people, who are motivated by the presence and actions of 
co-workers. As more and more attention is paid to user interface design, interac-
tion-oriented individuals are becoming more involved in software engineering.Research has shown that interaction-oriented personalities usually like to work as part of a group, whereas task-oriented and self-oriented people usually prefer to act 
as individuals. Women are more likely to be interaction-oriented than men are. They 
are often more effective communicators. I discuss the mix of these different person-
ality types in groups in the case study shown later in Figure 22.10.Each individual™s motivation is made up of elements of each class, but one type of motivation is usually dominant at any one time. However, individuals can change. 
For example, technical people who feel they are not being properly rewarded can 

become self-oriented and put personal interests before technical concerns. If a group 
works particularly well, self-oriented people can become more interaction-oriented.Most professional software is developed by project teams that range in size from 

two to several hundred people. However, as it is impossible for everyone in a large 

group to work together on a single problem, large teams are usually split into a 

number of smaller groups. Each group is responsible for developing part of the 

overall system. The best size for a software engineering group is 4 to 6 members, 

and they should never have more than 12 members. When groups are small, com-
munication problems are reduced. Everyone knows everyone else, and the whole 

group can get around a table for a meeting to discuss the project and the software 

that they are developing.The People Capability Maturity ModelThe People Capability Maturity Model (P-CMM) is a framework for assessing how well organizations manage 
the development of their staff. It highlights best practice in people management and provides a basis for organi-

zations to improve their people management processes. It is best suited to large rather than small, informal 
companies.http://software-engineering-book.com/web/people-cmm/