˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜
3.
 Allow for dynamic reconfiguration where parts of the software are replaced 
with new versions and where backup instruments are switched into the system 
in the event of system failure.Because weather stations have to be self-contained and unattended, this means 
that the software installed is complex, even though the data collection functionality 
is fairly simple.

Many teachers argue that using interactive software systems to support education 

can lead to both improved learner motivation and a deeper level of knowledge and 
understanding in students. However, there is no general agreement on the ‚best™ 

strategy for computer-supported learning, and teachers in practice use a range of dif-
ferent interactive, web-based tools to support learning. The tools used depend on the 
ages of the learners, their cultural background, their experience with computers, 

equipment available, and the preferences of the teachers involved.A digital learning environment is a framework in which a set of general-purpose and specially designed tools for learning may be embedded, plus a set of applica-
tions that are geared to the needs of the learners using the system. The framework 
provides general services such as an authentication service, synchronous and asyn-
chronous communication services, and a storage service.The tools included in each version of the environment are chosen by teachers and 
learners to suit their specific needs. These can be general applications such as spread-
sheets, learning management applications such as a Virtual Learning Environment 

(VLE) to manage homework submission and assessment, games, and simulations. 

They may also include specific content, such as content about the American Civil 

War and applications to view and annotate that content.Figure 1.
8 is a high-level architectural model of a digital learning environment 
(iLearn) that was designed for use in schools for students from 3 to 18 years of 

age. The approach adopted is that this is a distributed system in which all compo-
nents of the environment are services that can be accessed from anywhere on the 

Internet. There is no requirement that all of the learning tools are gathered together 

in one place.The system is a service-oriented system with all system components considered 
to be a replaceable service. There are three types of service in the system:1. Utility services that provide basic application-independent functionality and 
that may be used by other services in the system. Utility services are usually 

developed or adapted specifically for this system.2. Application services that provide specific applications such as email, conferencing, 

photo sharing, etc., and access to specific educational content such as scientific 

films or historical resources. Application services are external services that are 

either specifically purchased for the system or are available freely over the Internet.