˜˜˚˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
In Chapter 13, where I discussed security engineering, I introduced concepts that are fundamental to resilience planning. Some of these concepts are:1. Assets, which are systems and data that have to be protected. Some assets are more valuable than others and so require a higher level of protection.2. Threats, which are circumstances that can cause harm by damaging or stealing organizational IT infrastructure or system assets.3. Attacks, which are manifestations of a threat where an attacker aims to damage or steal IT assets, such as websites or personal data.Three types of threats have to be considered in resilience planning:1. Threats to the confidentiality of assets 
In this case, data is not damaged, but it is 
made available to people who should not have access to it. An example of a 

threat to confidentiality is when a credit card database held by a company is 

stolen, with the potential for illegal use of card information.2. Threats to the integrity of assets These are threats where systems or data are 

damaged in some way by a cyberattack. This may involve introducing a virus or 

a worm into software or corrupting organizational databases.3. Threats to the availability of assets 
These are threats that aim to deny use of 

assets by authorized users. The best-known example is a denial-of-service attack 
that aims to take down a website and so make it unavailable for external use.These are not independent threat classes. An attacker may compromise the integ-rity of a user™s system by introducing malware, such as a botnet component. This 

may then be invoked remotely as part of a distributed denial-of-service attack on 

another system. Other types of malware may be used to capture personal details and 
so allow confidential assets to be accessed.To counter these threats, organizations should put controls in place that make it 
difficult for attackers to access or damage assets. It is also important to raise aware-
ness of cybersecurity issues so that people know why these controls are important 

and so are less likely to reveal information to an attacker.Examples of controls that may be used are:1. Authentication, where users of a system have to show that they are authorized to access the system. The familiar login/password approach to authentication is a 
universally used but rather weak control.2. Encryption, where data is algorithmically scrambled so that an unauthorized 
reader cannot access the information. Many companies now require that laptop 
disks are encrypted. If the computer is lost or stolen, this reduces the likelihood 
that the confidentiality of the information will be breached.3. Firewalls, where incoming network packets are examined, then accepted or 
rejected according to a set of organizational rules. Firewalls can be used to 
