˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜˜˜˜
˜the work to ensure that it is carried out to the required standards, and they mon-itor progress to check that the development is on time and within budget.2. Risk management 
Project managers have to assess the risks that may affect a 

project, monitor these risks, and take action when problems arise.3. People management Project managers are responsible for managing a team of 
people. They have to choose people for their team and establish ways of work-
ing that lead to effective team performance. 4. Reporting Project managers are usually responsible for reporting on the progress 
of a project to customers and to the managers of the company developing the 

software. They have to be able to communicate at a range of levels, from detailed 

technical information to management summaries. They have to write concise, 
coherent documents that abstract critical information from detailed project 

reports. They must be able to present this information during progress reviews.5. Proposal writing The first stage in a software project may involve writing a 

proposal to win a contract to carry out an item of work. The proposal describes 
the objectives of the project and how it will be carried out. It usually includes 

cost and schedule estimates and justifies why the project contract should be 

awarded to a particular organization or team. Proposal writing is a critical task 
as the survival of many software companies depends on having enough propos-
als accepted and contracts awarded.Project planning is an important topic in its own right, which I discuss in 
Chapter˜23. In this chapter, I focus on risk management and people management.Risk management is one of the most important jobs for a project manager. You can think 

of a risk as something that you™d prefer not to have happen. Risks may threaten the pro-
ject, the software that is being developed, or the organization. Risk management involves 

anticipating risks that might affect the project schedule or the quality of the software 

being developed, and then taking action to avoid these risks (Hall 1998; Ould 1999).Risks can be categorized according to type of risk (technical, organizational, 
etc.), as I explain in Section 
22.1.1. A complementary classification is to classify 

risks according to what these risks affect:1. Project risks affect the project schedule or resources. An example of a project risk is the loss of an experienced system architect. Finding a replacement archi-
tect with appropriate skills and experience may take a long time; consequently, 
it will take longer to develop the software design than originally planned.2. Product risks affect the quality or performance of the software being developed. 

An example of a product risk is the failure of a purchased component to perform 