˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˚˜˜˜˜ high-profile cyberattacks that have damaged business and government systems have 
increased awareness of the need for resilience. It is clear that losses can be very 
 significant, and sometimes businesses may not survive a successful cyberattack. 

Therefore, there is increasing investment in resilience engineering to reduce the 

business risks associated with system failure.
Maintaining the security of our networked infrastructure and government, business, 
and personal computer systems is one of the most significant problems facing our 
society. The ubiquity of the Internet and our dependence on computer systems have 
created new criminal opportunities for theft and social disruption. It is very difficult 
to measure the losses due to cybercrime. However, in 2013, it was estimated that 

losses to the global economy due to cybercrime were between $100 billion and $500 
billion (InfoSecurity 2013).As I suggested in Chapter 13, cybersecurity  is a broader issue than system security 
engineering. Software security engineering is a primarily technical activity that focuses 

on techniques and technologies to ensure that application systems are secure. 

Cybersecurity is a sociotechnical concern. It covers all aspects of ensuring the protection 

of citizens, businesses, and critical infrastructures from threats that arise from their use 

of computers and the Internet. While technical issues are important, technology on its 

own cannot guarantee security. Factors that contribute to cybersecurity failures include:˜ organizational ignorance of the seriousness of the problem,˜ poor design and lax application of security procedures,˜ human carelessness, and˜ inappropriate trade-offs between usability and security.Cybersecurity is concerned with all of an organization™s IT assets from networks 
through to application systems. The vast majority of these assets are externally procured, 
and companies do not understand their detailed operation. Systems such as web brows-
ers are large and complex programs, and inevitably they contain bugs that can be a 

source of vulnerability. The different systems in an organization are related to each other 

in many different ways. They may be stored on the same disk, share data, rely on com-
mon operating systems components, and so on. The organizational ﬁsystem of systemsﬂ 

is incredibly complex. It is impossible to ensure that it is free of security vulnerabilities.Consequently, you should generally assume that your systems are vulnerable to cyberattack and that, at some stage, a cyberattack is likely to occur. A successful 

cyberattack can have very serious financial consequences for businesses, so it is 

essential that attacks are contained and losses minimized. Effective resilience engi-
neering at the organizational and systems levels can repel attacks and bring systems 
back into operation quickly and so limit the losses incurred.