˜˜
˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˜˜˜˜˜Alternatively, the software may be made publicly available for use by anyone who is interested in experimenting with it.Beta testing is mostly used for software products that are used in many different settings. This is important as, unlike custom product developers, there is no way for 
the product developer to limit the software™s operating environment. It is impossible 
for product developers to know and replicate all the settings in which the software 
product will be used. Beta testing is therefore used to discover interaction problems 
between the software and features of its operational environment. Beta testing is also 

a form of marketing. Customers learn about their system and what it can do for them.Acceptance testing is an inherent part of custom systems development. Customers 
test a system, using their own data, and decide if it should be accepted from the system 

developer. Acceptance implies that final payment should be made for the software.Figure 8.11 shows that here are six stages in the acceptance testing process:1. Define acceptance criteria This stage should ideally take place early in the pro-
cess before the contract for the system is signed. The acceptance criteria should 
be part of the system contract and be approved by the customer and the devel-
oper. In practice, however, it can be difficult to define criteria so early in the 

process. Detailed requirements may not be available, and the requirements will 

almost certainly change during the development process.2. Plan acceptance testing This stage involves deciding on the resources, time, and 
budget for acceptance testing and establishing a testing schedule. The accept-
ance test plan should also discuss the required coverage of the requirements and 
the order in which system features are tested. It should define risks to the testing 
process such as system crashes and inadequate performance, and discuss how 
these risks can be mitigated.3. Derive acceptance tests Once acceptance criteria have been established, tests 

have to be designed to check whether or not a system is acceptable. Acceptance 
tests should aim to test both the functional and non-functional characteristics 

(e.g., performance) of the system. They should ideally provide complete cover
-
age of the system requirements. In practice, it is difficult to establish completely 

objective acceptance criteria. There is often scope for argument about whether 
or not a test shows that a criterion has definitely been met.4. Run acceptance tests The agreed acceptance tests are executed on the system. 

Ideally, this step should take place in the actual environment where the system 
will be used, but this may be disruptive and impractical. Therefore, a user  testing DefineacceptancecriteriaTest
criteriaPlanacceptancetestingDeriveacceptancetestsRunacceptancetestsNegotiatetest resultsAccept orrejectsystemTest
planTests
Test
resultsTesting
report
Figure 8.11 The acceptance testing 
process 