CHAPTER 6  
HUMAN ASPECTS OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 101must avoid “toxicity” that is characterized by a frenzied and frustrating work atmosphere, an inappropriate software process, an unclear deﬁ nition of roles on 
the software team, and continuous exposure to failure.  There are many different team structures. Some teams organize hierarchi-cally, while others prefer a loose structure that relies on individual initiative. 

Agile teams subscribe to the agile philosophy and generally have more auton-
omy than more conventional software teams. Agile teams emphasize communi-
cation, simplicity, feedback, courage, and respect. 
 Social media is becoming an integral part of many software projects. Blogs, microblogs, forums, and social networking capabilities help to form a software 
engineering community that communicates and coordinates more effectively. 
 Cloud computing has the potential to inﬂ uence the manner in which software 
engineers organize their teams, the way they do their work, the manner in which 
they communicate and connect, and the way software projects are managed. In 
situations in which the cloud can enhance the social and collaborative aspects of 
software development, its beneﬁ ts far outweigh its risks. 
 Collaborative development environments contain a number of services that enhance communication and collaboration for a software team. These environ-
ments are particularly useful for global software development where geographic 
separation can precipitate barriers to successful software engineering.   
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
6.1.  Based on your personal observation of people who are excellent software developers, name three personality traits that appear to be common among them.    
 
6.2.  How can you be “brutally honest” and still not be perceived (by others) as insulting or aggressive?    
 
6.3.  How does a software team construct “artiﬁ cial boundaries” that reduce their ability to 
communicate with others?    
 
6.4.  Write a brief scenario that describes each of the “boundary-spanning roles” described 
in Section 6.2.    
 
6.5.  In Section 6.3, we note that a sense of purpose, involvement, trust, and improvement are essential attributes for effective software teams. Who is responsible for instilling these 
attributes as a team is formed?    
 
6.6.  Which of the four organizational paradigms for teams (Section 6.4) do you think would be most effective (a) for the IT department at a major insurance company; (b) for a software 
engineering group at a major defense contractor; (c) for a software group that builds com-
puter games; (d) for a major software company? Explain why you made the choices you did.    
 
6.7.  If you had to pick one attribute of an agile team that makes it different from a conven-tional software team, what would it be?    
 
6.8.  Of the forms of social media that were described for software engineering work in  Section 6.6, which do you think would be most effective and why?    
 
6.9.  Write a scenario in which the  
SafeHome 
 team members make use of one or more forms 
of social media as part of their software project.  pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   101pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   10113/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM