CHAPTER 17  
WEBAPP DESIGN 375font styles should be the same across all text documents; graphic art should 
have a consistent look, color scheme, and style). Graphic design (aesthetics) 

should present a consistent look across all parts of the WebApp. Navigation 

mechanisms should be used consistently across all WebApp elements. As 

Kaiser [Kai02] notes: “Remember that to a visitor, a website is a physical place. 

It is confusing if pages within a site are not consistent in design.“ 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Identity. 
  The aesthetic, interface, and navigational design of a WebApp 
must be consistent with the application domain for which it is to be built. 
A website for a music company will undoubtedly have a different look and 
feel than a WebApp designed for a ﬁ
 nancial services company. 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Robustness. 
  Based on the identity that has been established, a WebApp 
often makes an implicit “promise” to a user. The user expects robust con-

tent and functions that are relevant to the user’s needs. If these elements 

are missing or insufﬁ cient, it is likely that the WebApp will fail. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Navigability. 
  Navigation should be designed in a manner that is intuitive 
and predictable. That is, the user should understand how to move about 
the WebApp without having to search for navigation links or instructions. 

For example, if a ﬁ eld of graphic icons or images contains selected icons 
or images that will be used as navigation mechanisms, these must be iden-
tiﬁ ed visually. Nothing is more frustrating than trying to ﬁ
 nd the appropri-
ate live link among many graphical images.    
 
 
 
 
 
Visual Appeal.   Of all software categories, Web applications are unques-
tionably the most visual, the most dynamic, and the most unapologetically 
aesthetic. Beauty (visual appeal) is undoubtedly in the eye of the beholder, 

but many design characteristics (e.g., the look and feel of content; inter-

face layout; color coordination; the balance of text, graphics, and other 
media; navigation mechanisms) do contribute to visual appeal.    
 
 
 
 
 
Compatibility.   A WebApp will be used in a variety of environments (e.g., 
different hardware, Internet connection types, operating systems, brows-
ers) and must be designed to be compatible with each.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 17.3  
A DESIGN PYRAMID FOR WEBAPPS  
 
 
What is design in the context of Web engineering? This simple question is more 
difﬁ cult to answer than one might believe. Pressman and Lowe [Pre08] discuss 
this when they write:  
The creation of an effective design will typically require a diverse set of skills. Some-times, for small projects, a single developer may need to be multi-skilled. For larger 
projects, it may be advisable and/or feasible to draw on the expertise of specialists: 
Web engineers, graphic designers, content developers, programmers, database spe-

cialists, information architects, network engineers, security experts, and testers.   uote:  “To some, Web 
design focuses on 
visual look and 
o others, 

Web design is 

about structuring 
information 
and navigation 
through the 
document space. 
Others might even 
consider Web 

design to be about 
the technology 
used to build 
interactive Web 

applications. In 
reality, design 

includes all of these 
things and maybe 
more.”  Thomas Powell 
pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   375pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   37513/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM