338 PART TWO  
MODELINGsmart phones), the mobile interface designer must compress interaction 
in a  focused manner. However, the basic principles discussed in this section con-
tinue to apply. 
 Bruce Tognozzi [Tog01] deﬁ
 nes a set of fundamental design principles that 
lead to better usability:  6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Anticipation.    
An application should be designed so that it anticipates the user’s 
next move. 
 For example, a user has requested a content object that presents 
information about a printer driver for a new version of an operating system. The 
designer of the WebApp should anticipate that the user might request a down-

load of the driver and should provide navigation facilities that allow this to hap-
pen directly. 
  
 
Communication.    
The interface should communicate the status of any activity initiated by the user.
 
 Communication can be obvious (e.g., a text message) or sub-
tle (e.g., an image of a sheet of paper moving through a printer to indicate that 
printing is under way).   
 
Consistency.    
The use of navigation controls, menus, icons, and aesthetics (e.g., 
color, shape, layout) should be consistent throughout.
 
 For example, if a mobile 
app uses a set of four icons (to represent major functions) across the bottom of 
the display, these icons should appear on every screen and should not be moved 

to the top of the display. The meaning of the icons should be self-evident within 

the context of the app.   
 
Controlled Autonomy.    
The interface should facilitate user movement through-
out the application, but it should do so in a manner that enforces navigation con-

ventions that have been established for the application. 
 For example, navigation 
to content requiring controlled access should be controlled by userID and pass-
word, and there should be no navigation mechanism that enables a user to cir-

cumvent these controls.   
 
Efficiency.    
The design of the application and its interface should optimize the user’s work efﬁ
 ciency, not the efﬁ
 ciency of the developer who designs and builds it 
or the client-server environment that executes it.
 
 Tognozzi [Tog01] discusses this 
when he writes: “This simple truth is why it is so important for everyone … to ap-
preciate the importance of making user productivity goal one and to understand 
the vital difference between building an efﬁ cient [application] and empowering 
an efﬁ cient user.” 
 
 
 
Flexibility.    
The interface should be ﬂ exible enough to enable some users to 
accomplish tasks directly and others to explore the application in a somewhat 
 Is there a 
set of basic principles that can 
be applied as you 
design a GUI? ?  
6  Tognozzi’s original principles have been adapted and extended for use this book. See [Tog01] 
for further discussion of these principles. pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   338pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   33813/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM