CHAPTER 25  
TESTING WEB APPLICATIONS
 557 
 
 
•  If the NSU can be achieved using more than one navigation path, has every relevant path been tested?   
 
 
•  If guidance is provided by the user interface to assist in navigation, are directions correct and understandable as navigation proceeds?   
 
 
•  Is there a mechanism (other than the browser “back” arrow) for returning to 
the preceding navigation node and to the beginning of the navigation path? 
  
 
 
•  Do mechanisms for navigation within a large navigation node (i.e., a long Web page) work properly? 
  
 
 
•  If a function is to be executed at a node and the user chooses not to provide input, can the remainder of the NSU be completed?   
 
 
•  If a function is executed at a node and an error in function processing occurs, can the NSU be completed?   
 
 
•  Is there a way to discontinue the navigation before all nodes have been reached, but then return to where the navigation was discontinued and 
proceed from there?   
 
 
•  Is every node reachable from the site map? Are node names meaningful to end users?   
 
 
•  If a node within an NSU is reached from some external source, is it pos-sible to process to the next node on the navigation path? Is it possible to 
return to the previous node on the navigation path?   
 
 
•  Does the user understand his location within the content architecture as the NSU is executed?  
 
   
 
 
 
 
Navigation testing, like interface and usability testing, should be conducted by as many different constituencies as possible. You have responsibility for early 

stages of navigation testing, but later stages should be conducted by other proj-
ect stakeholders, an independent testing team, and ultimately, by nontechnical 

users. The intent is to exercise WebApp navigation thoroughly. 
 
 
 
    If NSUs have not been 
created as part of 

WebApp analysis or 

design, you can apply 
use cases for the de-
sign of navigation test 
cases. The same set 
of questions are asked 
and answered.   
 
Web Navigation Testing Tools 
  
 Objective: 
 The objective of Web user 
navigation testing tools is to identify any broken 
web links or pages that are not reachable in a website. 
  Mechanics: 
 The tools prompt you for the URL of a Web 
source and scan its markup language for links that do not 

return the correct type of Web resource. Some tools attempt 

to crawl through whole site to look for errors in deeper links. 
  Representative Tools:  
 11 
 
 
  
 
 
http://validator.w3.org/checklink> 
 
—Online WC3 link checker that analyzes HTML and XHTML 
documents for broken links.   
 
http://www.relsoftware.com/ 
 
—Download site for  Rel Link Checker Lite 
 a free tool for identifying broken links and orphaned ﬁ les. 
  
INFO  
 
11  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   557pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   55713/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM