402 PART TWO  
MODELING 
considerations when designing mobile touch-screen applications listed by Schumacher include:   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•   
Identify your audience. 
 The application must be written with the expecta-tions and backgrounds of its users in mind. Experienced users want to do 
things quickly. Less experienced users will appreciate a handholding 

 approach when they are ﬁ rst using the app. 
  
 
 
•   
Design for context of use. 
 It is important to consider how the user will  interact with the real world while using the MobileApp. Watching a movie 
on an airplane calls for a different user interface than checking the 
weather before you leave the ofﬁ ce. 
  
 
 
•   
There is a ﬁ ne line between simplicity and laziness.
 
 Creating an intuitive user interface on a mobile device is much harder than simply removing 
features found in the user interface for the application running on a larger 
device. The user interface should provide all the information that enables 
a user to make her next decision.   
 
 
•   
Use the platform as an advantage. 
 Touch-screen navigation is not intuitive 
and must be learned by all new users. This learning task will be easier if 
the user interface designers adhere to standards that have been set for 
the platform.   
 
 
•   
Make scrollbars and selection highlighting more salient. 
 Scrollbars are often hard to locate on touch devices because they are too small. Make 
sure that menu or icon borders are wide enough for color changes to 
catch the users’ attention. When color coding is used, make sure there is 
sufﬁ cient contrast between foreground and background colors to allow 
them to be distinguishable by any colorblind users.   
 
 
•   
Increase discoverability of advanced functionality.
 
 Hot keys and other shortcuts are sometimes included in MobileApps to allow experienced 
users to complete their tasks more quickly. You can increase the discov-

erability of features like these by including visual design clues in the user 
interface.   
 
 
•   
Use clear and consistent labels. 
 Widget labels should be recognized by all 
app users, regardless of standards used by speciﬁ c platforms. Use abbre-
viations cautiously and avoid them if possible.   
 
 
•   
Clever icons should never be developed at the expense of user under-
standing. 
 Icons sometimes only make sense to their designers. Users must be able to learn their meaning quickly. It is hard to guarantee that icons 

are meaningful across all languages and user groups. A good strategy to 
 enhance recognition is to add a text label beneath a novel icon.   What are 
the things I should think about 
when designing 
mobile touch-
screen apps? ?pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   402pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   40216/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM