CHAPTER 6  
HUMAN ASPECTS OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 99 
 
 
•   
Communication analysis 
 that tracks communication across the team and 
isolates patterns that may imply problems or issues that need to be resolved. 
  
 
 
•   
Artifact-clustering 
 that organizes work products and other project  artifacts in a manner that answers questions such as: “ What triggered a particular change ,  who has discussed a speciﬁ c artifact that should poten-
tially be consulted about changes to it,  and  how might a [team] member’s 
own work affect other people’s work?” [Fok10]. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Collaborative Development Environments 
  
Objective: 
 As software development becomes global, software teams need more than 
development tools. They need a set of services that 

enable members of the team to collaborate locally 
and over long distances.   
Mechanics: 
 Tools and services in this category allow a 
team to establish mechanisms for collaborative work. 
A CDE will implement many or all of the services 

described in Section 6.6, while at the same time 
provide access to process management (Chapter 4) conventional software engineering tools discussed throughout this book.   
Representative tools:7 
   
 
GForge 
—a collaborative environment that contains both project and code management facilities  (http://gforge.com/gf/)
 
   
OneDesk 
—provides a collaborative environment that 
creates and manages a project workspace for 

developers and stakeholders  (www.onedesk.com)
 
   
Rational Team Concert 
—an in-depth, collaborative life-cycle management system  (http://www-01.ibm.com/software/rational/products/rtc/)
 
 
  
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
7  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather, a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 6.9 G
LOBAL TEAMS   
 
  
In the software domain, globalization implies more than the transfer of goods and 
services across international boundaries. For the past few decades, an increasing 

number of major software products have been built by software teams that are often 

located in different countries. These global software development (GSD) teams 

have many of the characteristics of a conventional software team (Section 6.4), but 

a GSD team has other unique challenges that include coordination, collaboration, 

communication, and specialized decision making. Approaches to coordination, 

collaboration, and communication have been discussed earlier in this chapter. De-

cision making on all software teams is complicated by four factors [Gar10]: 
  
 
•  Complexity of the problem.   
 
 
•  Uncertainty and risk associated with the decision.   
 
 
•  The law of unintended consequences (i.e., work-associated decision has an unintended effect on another project objective).   
 
 
•  Different views of the problem that lead to different conclusions about the way forward.  
 
  
 uote:  “More and more, 
in any company, 

managers are 
dealing with 
different cultures. 
Companies are 
going global, but 
the teams are 
being divided and 
scattered all over 
the planet.”  Carlos Ghosn, 
Nissan pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   99pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   9913/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM