576 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTtest gestures. Instead, testers need to create test framework programs that make calls to functions that simulate gesture events. All of this is expensive and 
time-consuming.  Accessibility testing for visually impaired users is challenging because gesture interfaces typically do not provide either tactile or auditory feedback. Usability 
and accessibility testing for gestures become very important for ubiquitous de-
vices like smartphones. It may be important to test the operation of the device 
when gesture operations are not available.  Ideally user stories or use cases are written in sufﬁ cient detail to allow 
their use as the basis for test scripts. It is important to recruit representative 

users and include all targeted devices to take screen differences into account 

when testing gestures with a MobileApp. Finally, testers should ensure that the 

gestures conform to the standards and contexts set for the mobile device or 

platform. 
  
 
 
26.3.2   
Voice Input and Recognition 
 
Smart mobile devices now make use of voice input to allow for contemporane-ous hands-busy, eyes-busy operation of the device. Voice input may take several 

forms with different levels of programming complexity required to process each. 
Voice-mail input occurs when a message is simply recorded for playback later. 

Discrete word recognition can be used to allow users to verbally select items 
from a menu with a small number of choices. Continuous speech recognition 
reﬂ ects attempts to translate dictated speech into meaningful text strings. Each 
type of voice input has its own testing challenges.   
 
 
 
 
According to Shneiderman [Shn09] all forms of speech input and process-ing are hindered by interference from noisy environments. Using voice com-
mands to control a device impresses a greater cognitive load on the user, as 

compared to pointing to a screen object or pressing a key. The user must think 

of the correct word or words to get the MobileApp to perform the desired ac-
tion. When pointing at an object, however, the user merely needs to recognize 

the appropriate screen object and select it. However, the breadth and accu-

racy of speech recognition systems are evolving rapidly, and it is likely that 

voice recognition will become the dominant form of communication in many 

MobileApps. 
 Testing the quality and reliability of voice input and recognition presents 
technical challenges for even the best testing organizations. Erroneous voice 

input (due to user error, misspoken words or phrases, or environmental inter-

ference) must be tested to ensure that bad input does not cause the Mobile-
App or the device to fail. Because each user/device combination is different, a 

broad population of users and environments should be involved to ensure an 

acceptable error rate. Finally, it is important to log errors so that developers 

can improve the ability of the MobileApp to process speech input. 
   Testing of voice input 
should take environ-
mental conditions and 
individual voice varia-
tion into account. pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   576pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   57613/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM