844 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
same time fostering a level of uniformity that allows an overall global project to proceed. This type of organization suggests fewer levels of management and 
a greater emphasis on team-level decision making. It can lead to greater agil-
ity, but only if communication mechanisms have been established so that every 

team can understand project and technical status (via networked groupware) at 
any time. Software engineering methods and tools can help achieve some level 
of uniformity (teams speak the same “language” implemented through speciﬁ c 
methods and tools). Software process can provide the framework for the instan-
tiation of these methods and tools.  In some world regions (the United States and Europe are examples), the pop-ulation is aging. This undeniable demographic (and cultural trend) implies that 
many experienced software engineers and managers will be leaving the ﬁ eld 
over the coming decade. The software engineering community must respond 
with viable mechanisms that capture the knowledge of these aging managers 
and technologists (e.g., the use of  patterns 
 (Chapter 16) is a step in the right di-
rection), so that it will be available to future generations of software workers. In 
other regions of the world, the number of young people available to the software 
industry is exploding. This provides an opportunity to mold a software engineer-

ing culture without the burden of 50 years of “old-school” prejudices.  It is estimated that over 1 billion new consumers will enter the worldwide marketplace over the next decade. Consumer spending in emerging econo-
mies will grow to over $12 trillion in 10 years [ATK12]. There is little doubt that a 

nontrivial percentage of this spending will be applied to products and services 
that have a digital component—that are software based or software driven. The 
 implication—an increasing demand for new software. The question then is, “Can new software engineering technologies be developed to meet this worldwide 
demand?” Modern market trends are often driven by the supply side.  
2   In other 
cases, demand-side requirements drive the market. In either case, a cycle of 
innovation and demand progresses in a way that sometimes makes it difﬁ cult to 
determine which came ﬁ rst! 
  Finally, human culture itself will impact the direction of software engineering. 
Every generation establishes its own imprint on local culture, and yours will be 
no different. Faith Popcorn [Pop08], a well-known consultant who specializes in 
cultural trends, characterizes them in the following manner: “Our Trends are not 

fads. Our Trends endure. Our Trends evolve. They represent underlying forces, 

ﬁ rst causes, basic human needs, attitudes, aspirations. They help us navigate 
the world, understand what’s happening and why, and prepare for what is yet to 

come.” A detailed discussion of how modern cultural trends will have an impact 
on software engineering is best left to those who specialize in the “soft sciences.”   
2  Supply side adopts a “build it and they will come” approach to markets. Unique technologies 
are created, and consumers ﬂ ock to adopt them–sometimes! 
pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   844pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   84413/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM