202  
 
 
CHAPTER 
KEY CONCEPTS     analysis patterns  . .208 
     behavioral model. . 203   

   conﬁ
 guration 
models. . . . . . . . . 219   

   content model. . . . 216   

   events  . . . . . . . . . 203   

   functional model . . 218   

   interaction model  . .217 
     navigation 

modeling  . . . . . . . 220   

   sequence diagrams  205   

   state diagrams  . . . 204   

   state representations 204    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 After our discussion of scenario-based and class-based models in Chap-ters 9 and 10, it’s reasonable to ask, “Aren’t those requirement model-

ing representations enough?”  The only reasonable answer is, “That depends.”  For some types of software, the use case may be the only requirements mod-eling representation that is required. For others, an object-oriented approach 
is chosen and class-based models may be developed. But in other situations, 
complex application requirements may demand an examination of how an 
application behaves as a consequence of external events; whether existing 
domain knowledge can be adapted to the current problem; or in the case of 
Web-based or mobile systems and applications, how content and functionality 

meld to provide an end user with the ability to successfully navigate an appli-
cation to achieve usage goals.  REQUIREMENTS MODELING: BEHAVIOR
, PATTERNS
, AND WEB/MOBILE APPS 11   
What is it?   In this chapter you’ll learn about other dimensions of the 

requirements model—behavioral 
models, patterns, and the special re-
quirements analysis considerations that come 
into play when WebApps are developed. 

Each of these modeling representations sup-
plements the scenario-based and class-based 
models discussed in Chapters 9 and 10.   
 
Who does it?   A software engineer (sometimes called an analyst) builds the model using re-
quirements elicited from various stakeholders.   
 
Why is it important? 
  Your insight into soft-
ware requirements grows in direct proportion 

to the number of different requirements model-
ing dimensions. Although you may not have 
the time, the resources, or the inclination to 
develop every representation suggested in 

Chapters 9 to 11, recognize that each differ-

ent modeling approach provides you with a 
different way of looking at the problem. As a 
consequence, you (and other stakeholders) will be better able to assess whether you’ve prop-erly speciﬁ ed what must be accomplished. 
  
 
What are the steps?   Behavioral model-ing depicts the states of the system and its 
classes and the impact of events on these 
states. Pattern-based modeling makes use of 

existing domain knowledge to facilitate re-
quirements analysis. WebApp requirements 

models are especially adapted for the repre-
sentation of content, interaction, function, and 
conﬁ guration-related requirements. 
  
 
What is the work product? 
  A wide array of text-based and diagrammatic forms may be 

chosen for the requirements model. Each of 
these representations provides a view of one 
or more of the model elements.   
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?   Re-quirements modeling work products must be 
reviewed for correctness, completeness, and 
consistency. They must reﬂ
 ect the needs of all 
stakeholders and establish a foundation from 
which design can be conducted.   
QUICK LOOK pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   202pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   20213/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM