112 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
 
 
7.3.2  Planning Principles 
 
  
The communication activity helps you to deﬁ ne your overall goals and objectives 
(subject, of course, to change as time passes). However, understanding these 

goals and objectives is not the same as deﬁ ning a plan for getting there. The 
planning activity encompasses a set of management and technical practices that 
enable the software team to deﬁ ne a road map as it travels toward its strategic 
goal and tactical objectives.  Try as we might, it’s impossible to predict exactly how a software project will 
evolve. There is no easy way to determine what unforeseen technical problems 
will be encountered, what important information will remain undiscovered until 
late in the project, what misunderstandings will occur, or what business issues 

will change. And yet, a good software team must plan its approach.  There are many different planning philosophies.  3 
 
 Some people are “minimal-
ists,” arguing that change often obviates the need for a detailed plan. Others 
are “traditionalists,” arguing that the plan provides an effective road map and 
the more detail it has, the less likely the team will become lost. Still others are 
“agilists,” arguing that a quick “planning game” may be necessary, but that the 

road map will emerge as “real work” on the software begins.  
 
 
 
   
What to do? On many projects, overplanning is time consuming and fruitless (too many things change), but underplanning is a recipe for chaos. Like most 
things in life, planning should be conducted in moderation, enough to provide   uote:   “In preparing 
for battle I have 
always found that 
plans are useless, 
but planning is 
indispensable.”  General Dwight 
D. Eisenhower  WebRef 
  An excellent repository 
of planning and project 
management informa-

tion can be found at 
  
www.4pm.com/
repository.htm  . 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  I’ve already done a little bit of investigation, 
but it didn’t go well. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Ed:  “What do you mean?” 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  Well, I gave Lisa Perez a call. She’s the market-
ing honcho on this thing.    
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  And . . . ? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  I wanted her to tell me about 
 
SafeHome 
  features and functions . . . that sort of thing. Instead, 
she began asking me questions about security systems, 
 surveillance systems . . . I’m no expert. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  What does that tell you? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
(Jamie shrugs)    
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  That marketing will need us to act as consul-
tants and that we’d better do some homework on this product area before our kick-off meeting. Doug said that he wanted us to “collaborate” with our customer, so 

we’d better learn how to do that. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Ed:  Probably would have been better to stop by her 
ofﬁ ce. Phone calls just don’t work as well for this sort of 
thing.    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  You’re both right. We’ve got to get our act to-
gether or our early communications will be a struggle.    
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  I saw Doug reading a book on “requirements 
engineering.” I’ll bet that lists some principles of good 
communication. I’m going to borrow it from him.    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  Good idea . . . then you can teach us. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod (smiling):  Yeah, right. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3  A detailed discussion of software project planning and management is presented in Part 4 of 
this book. pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   112pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   11213/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM