CHAPTER 30  
PRODUCT METRICS 659       
 30.2  METRICS FOR THE REQUIREMENTS MODEL   
Technical work in software engineering begins with the creation of the require-

ments model. It is at this stage that requirements are derived and a foundation 
for design is established. Therefore, product metrics that provide insight into the 
quality of the analysis model are desirable.  Although relatively few analysis and speciﬁ cation metrics have appeared in 
the literature, it is possible to adapt metrics that are often used for project es-
timation and apply them in this context. These metrics examine the require-
ments model with the intent of predicting the “size” of the resultant system. Size 
is sometimes (but not always) an indicator of design complexity and is almost 
always an indicator of increased coding, integration, and testing effort.    
30.2.1   Function-Based Metrics       
The  function point  (FP)  metric  can be used effectively as a means for measuring the functionality delivered by a system.  4  
 Using historical data, the FP metric can then be used to (1) estimate the cost or effort required to design, code, and test 
the software; (2) predict the number of errors that will be encountered during 
testing; and (3) forecast the number of components and/or the number of pro-
jected source lines in the implemented system.  
 Function points are derived using an empirical relationship based on count-able (direct) measures of software’s information domain and qualitative assess-

ments of software complexity. Information domain values are deﬁ
 ned in the 
following manner:  5
  
         
Number of external inputs (EIs).  Each  
external input  originates from a 
user or is transmitted from another application and provides distinct ap-
plication-oriented data or control information. Inputs are often used to 
update  internal logical ﬁ les  (ILFs). Inputs should be distinguished from 
inquiries, which are counted separately.  

        
Number of external outputs (EOs).  Each  
external output  is derived data 
within the application that provides information to the user. In this con-

text external output refers to reports, screens, error messages, and the 
like. Individual data items within a report are not counted separately.  

        
Number of external inquiries (EQs).  An  
external inquiry  is deﬁ ned as an 
online input that results in the generation of some immediate software 
 response in the form of an online output (often retrieved from an ILF).  
 WebRef 
 Much useful informa-

tion about function 
points can be obtained 
at   www.ifpug.org   
and   http://www

.functionpoint
.com/  .   4 
 Hundreds of books, papers, and articles have been written on FP metrics. A worthwhile bibli-
ography can be found at [IFP05].   5 
 In actuality, the deﬁ nition of information domain values and the manner in which they are 
counted are a bit more complex. The interested reader should see [IFP01] for more details. 