790 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
For a large project, 30 or 40 risks may be identiﬁ ed. If between three and seven 
risk management steps are identiﬁ ed for each, risk management may become a 
project in itself. For this reason, you should adapt the Pareto 80–20 rule to soft-
ware risk. Experience indicates that 80 percent of the overall project risk (i.e., 
80 percent of the potential for project failure) can be accounted for by only 20 
percent of the identiﬁ ed risks. The work performed during earlier risk analysis 
steps will help you to determine which of the risks reside in that 20 percent (e.g., 
risks that lead to the highest risk exposure). For this reason, some of the risks 
identiﬁ ed, assessed, and projected may not make it into the RMMM plan—they 
don’t fall into the critical 20 percent (the risks with highest project priority).  Risk is not limited to the software project itself. Risks can occur after the soft-ware has been successfully developed and delivered to the customer. These risks 

are typically associated with the consequences of software failure in the ﬁ eld. 
  
Software safety and hazard analysis
 
 (e.g., [Dun02], [Her00], [Lev95]) are soft-
ware quality assurance activities (Chapter 21) that focus on the identiﬁ cation and 
assessment of potential hazards that may affect software negatively and cause an 
entire system to fail. If hazards can be identiﬁ ed early in the software engineer-
ing process, software design features can be speciﬁ ed that will either eliminate 
or control potential hazards.   
 
 
 
 35.7  
THE RMMM PLAN  
 
A risk management strategy can be included in the software project plan, or the risk management steps can be organized into a separate  risk mitigation, moni-toring and management plan. 
 The RMMM plan documents all work performed 
as part of risk analysis and is used by the project manager as part of the overall 
project plan.  Some software teams do not develop a formal RMMM document. Rather, each 
risk is documented individually using a  risk information sheet 
 (RIS) [Wil97]. In 
most cases, the RIS is maintained using a database system so that creation and 
information entry, priority ordering, searches, and other analysis may be accom-

plished easily. The format of the RIS is illustrated in  
 
Figure 35.4  
.   Once RMMM has been documented and the project has begun, risk mitigation and monitoring steps commence. As we have already discussed, risk mitigation 
is a problem avoidance activity. Risk monitoring is a project tracking activity 

with three primary objectives: (1) to assess whether predicted risks do, in fact, 
occur; (2) to ensure that risk aversion steps deﬁ ned for the risk are being prop-
erly applied; and (3) to collect information that can be used for future risk anal-
ysis. In many cases, the problems that occur during a project can be traced to 
more than one risk. Another job of risk monitoring is to attempt to allocate origin 
[what risk(s) caused which problems throughout the project].  
 
 
 pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   790pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   79013/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM