792 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 35.8 S
UMMARY  
Whenever a lot is riding on a software project, common sense dictates risk anal-ysis. And yet, most software project managers do it informally and superﬁ cially, 
if they do it at all. The time spent identifying, analyzing, and managing risk pays 
itself back in many ways—less upheaval during the project, a greater ability to 
track and control a project, and the conﬁ dence that comes with planning for 
problems before they occur. 
 Risk analysis can absorb a signiﬁ cant amount of project planning effort. Iden-
tiﬁ cation, projection, assessment, management, and monitoring all take time. 
But the effort is worth it. To quote Sun Tzu, a Chinese general who lived 2,500 

years ago, “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the re-
sult of a hundred battles.” For the software project manager, the enemy is risk. 
  
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
35.1.  Provide ﬁ ve examples from other ﬁ
 elds that illustrate the problems associated with a 
reactive risk strategy. 
   
 
35.2.  Describe the difference between “known risks” and “predictable risks.”    
 
35.3.  Add three additional questions or topics to each of the risk item checklists presented at the SEPA website. 
   
 
35.4.  You’ve been asked to build software to support a low-cost video editing system. The 
system accepts digital video as input, stores the video on disk, and then allows the user 
to do a wide range of edits to the digitized video. The result can then be output to DVD or 
other media. Do a small amount of research on systems of this type and then make a list of 
technology risks that you would face as you begin a project of this type.    
 
35.5.  You’re the project manager for a major software company. You’ve been asked to lead 
a team that’s developing “next generation” word-processing software. Create a risk table 

for the project.    
 
35.6.  Describe the difference between risk components and risk drivers.    
 
35.7.  Develop a risk mitigation strategy and speciﬁ c risk mitigation activities for three of 
the risks noted in   
Figure 35.2  
.   
 
 
 
 
Risk Radar,
 
 developed by SPMN (  
www.spmn.com
 
 
), assists project managers in identifying and managing 
project risks.    
 
 
 
ARM, 
 developed by Deltek (  
www.deltek.com
 
 
), Web-based tool that allows suppliers, customers 

and geographically disbursed project teams to 
collaborate on essential risk knowledge.    
 
 
 
X:PRIMER, 
 developed by GrafP Technologies 
(  
www.grafp.com
 
 
) is a generic Web-based tool 
that predicts what can go wrong on a project and 
identiﬁ es root causes for potential failures and 
effective countermeasures. 
 
 
 
 
 pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   792pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   79213/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM