214 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
11.5.1  How Much Analysis Is Enough? 
 
The degree to which requirements modeling for Web and mobile apps is empha-
sized depends on the following size-related factors: (1) the size and complexity 
of the application increment, (2) the number of stakeholders (analysis can help 
to identify conﬂ icting requirements coming from different sources), (3) the size 
of the app development team, (4) the degree to which members of the team have 
worked together before (analysis can help develop a common understanding of 
the project), and (5) the degree to which the organization’s success is directly 

dependent on the success of the application.  The converse of the preceding points is that as the project becomes smaller, the 
number of stakeholders fewer, the development team more cohesive, and the appli-

cation less critical, it is reasonable to apply a more lightweight analysis approach. 
 Although it is a good idea to analyze the problem or product requirements  before
 
 beginning design, it is not true that  
all 
 analysis must precede  
all 
 design. 
In fact, the design of a speciﬁ c part of the application only demands an analysis 
of those requirements that affect only that part of the application. As an example 
from  SafeHome 
, you could validly design the overall website aesthetics (layouts, color schemes, etc.) without having analyzed the functional requirements for 
e-commerce capabilities. You only need to analyze that part of the problem that 

is relevant to the design work for the increment to be delivered.  8 
 
  
 
 
 
11.5.2  Requirements Modeling Input 
 
An agile version of the generic software process discussed in Chapter 5 can be applied when Web or mobile apps are engineered. The process incorporates a 

communication activity that identiﬁ es stakeholders and user categories, the 
business context, deﬁ ned informational and applicative goals, general product 
requirements, and usage scenarios—information that becomes input to require-
ments modeling. This information is represented in the form of natural language 
descriptions, rough outlines, sketches, and other informal representations.  Analysis takes this information, structures it using a formally deﬁ ned repre-
sentation scheme (where appropriate), and then produces more rigorous models 
as an output. The requirements model provides a detailed indication of the true 
structure of the problem and provides insight into the shape of the solution.  The  SafeHome 
 ACS-DCV (camera surveillance) function was introduced in 
Chapter 9. When it was introduced, this function seemed relatively clear and was de-
scribed in some detail as part of a use case (Section 9.2.1). However, a reexamination 

of the use case might uncover information that is missing, ambiguous, or unclear. 
 Some aspects of this missing information would naturally emerge during the design. Examples might include the speciﬁ c layout of the function buttons, their 
 
 
8  In situations in which a design of one part of an application will have impact across other parts 
of an application, the scope of analysis should be broadened. pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   214pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   21413/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM