CHAPTER 6  
HUMAN ASPECTS OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 97team working in that area to make connections that would enhance their work. As a community grows, participants discuss technology trends, application sce-
narios, new tools, and other software engineering knowledge. Finally,  
social bookmarking sites 
 (e.g., Delicious, Stumble, CiteULike) allow a software engi-
neer or team to recommend Web-based resources that may be of interest to a 

social media community of like-minded individuals.  It is very important to note that privacy and security issues should not be over-
looked when using social media for software engineering work. Much of the work 

performed by software engineers may be proprietary to their employer and dis-
closure could be very harmful. For that reason, the distinct beneﬁ ts of social media 
must be weighed against the treat of uncontrolled disclosure of private information. 
  
 
 
 
 6.7 S
OFTWARE
 ENGINEERING USING THE CLOUD  
 
 
 
Cloud computing  
 provides a mechanism for access to all software engineering 
work products, artifacts, and project-related information. It runs everywhere and 
removes the device dependency that was once a constraint for many software 
projects. It allows members of a software team to conduct platform- independent, low-risk trials of new software tools and to provide feedback on those tools. It 
provides new avenues for distribution and testing of beta software. It provides 
the potential for improved approaches to content and conﬁ guration manage-
ment (Chapter 29).  Because cloud computing can accomplish these things, it has the potential to inﬂ uence the manner in which software engineers organize their teams, the 
way they do their work, the manner in which they communicate and connect, 
and the way software projects are managed. Software engineering information 
developed by one team member can be instantly available to all team members, 
regardless of the platform others are using or their location.   
 
 
 
 
In essence, information dispersion speeds up and broadens dramatically. That 
changes the software engineering dynamic and can have a profound impact on 
the human aspects of software engineering.  But cloud computing in a software engineering milieu is not without risk [The13]. The cloud is dispersed over many servers and the architecture and ser-

vices are often outside the control of a software team. As a consequence, there 
are multiple points of failure, presenting reliability and security risks. As the 
number of services provided by the cloud grows, the relative complexity of the 
software development environment also grows. Does each of these services play 
well with other services, possibly provided by other vendors? This presents an 
interoperability risk for cloud services. Finally, if the cloud becomes the develop-

ment environment, services must stress usability and performance. These attri-
butes sometime conﬂ ict with security, privacy, and reliability. 
   The cloud is a powerful 
repository for software 

engineering informa-

tion, but you must 
be sure to consider 
the change control 
issues discussed in 
  uote:  “They don’t call 
it the Internet 
anymore, they call 
it cloud computing. 
I’m no longer 
resisting the name. 
Call it what you 
want.”  Larry Ellison 
pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   97pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   9713/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM