CHAPTER 21  
SOFTWARE QUALITY ASSURANCE
 463 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.9  
THE SQA PLAN  
 
The  SQA Plan 
 provides a road map for instituting software quality assurance. 
Developed by the SQA group (or by the software team if an SQA group does not 
exist), the plan serves as a template for SQA activities that are instituted for each 
software project.  A standard for SQA plans has been published by the IEEE [IEE93]. The stan-dard recommends a structure that identiﬁ es: (1) the purpose and scope of the 
plan, (2) a description of all software engineering work products (e.g., models, 
documents, source code) that fall within the purview of SQA, (3) all applicable 
standards and practices that are applied during the software process, (4) SQA 
actions and tasks (including reviews and audits) and their placement through-
out the software process, (5) the tools and methods that support SQA actions 
and tasks, (6) software conﬁ guration management (Chapter 29) procedures, 
(7) methods for assembling, safeguarding, and maintaining all SQA-related re-
cords, and (8) organizational roles and responsibilities relative to product quality. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Software Quality Management 
  
 Objective: 
 The objective of SQA tools is to assist a project team in assessing and improving the quality of software work product.   Mechanics: 
 Tools mechanics vary. In general, the intent 
is to assess the quality of a speciﬁ c work product. Note: 

through 26) are often included within the SQA tools 
category. 
  
Representative Tools:  
 6 
  
 
 
 
QA Complete, 
 developed by SmartBear ( 
http://smartbear.com/products/qa-tools/test-

management 
), QA management ensures complete test coverage through every stage of the software 
development process.   
QPR Suite, 
 developed by QPR Software ( http://www.
qpr.com
 
), provides support for Six Sigma and other 
quality management approaches.   
Quality Tools and Templates,
 
 developed by iSixSigma ( http://www.isixsigma.com/tools-
templates/ 
), describe a wide array of useful tools and methods for quality management.   
NASA Quality Resources, 
 developed by the Goddard Space Flight Center ( http://www.hq.nasa.gov/
ofﬁ ce/codeq/software/ComplexElectronics/
checklists.htm 
) provides useful forms, templates, 
checklists, and tools for SQA.   
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
6  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this 
category. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 21.10 S
UMMARY  
Software quality assurance is a software engineering umbrella activity that is applied at each step in the software process. SQA encompasses procedures for 
the effective application of methods and tools, oversight of quality control ac-
tivities such as technical reviews and software testing, procedures for change pre22126_ch21_448-465.indd   463pre22126_ch21_448-465.indd   46313/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM