PREFACE
 xxixa catalog of software engineering tools, a comprehensive collection of Web-based re-
sources, and an “adaptable process model” that provides a detailed task breakdown 
of the software engineering process. McGraw-Hill Connect® Computer Science provides online presentation, assignment, and assessment solu-
tions. It connects your students with the tools and 
resources they’ll need to achieve success. With Connect Computer Science you can deliver assignments, quizzes, and tests online. A robust set of questions and activi-
ties are presented and aligned with the textbook’s learning outcomes. As an instruc-
tor, you can edit existing questions and author entirely new problems. Integrate 
grade reports easily with Learning Management Systems (LMS), such as WebCT and 
 Blackboard—and much more. ConnectPlus® Computer Science provides students with all the advantages of Connect Computer Science, plus 24/7 online access to a media-rich eBook, allowing seamless integration of text, media, and assessments. To 
learn more, visit www.mcgrawhillconnect.comMcGraw-Hill LearnSmart® is avail-
able as a standalone product or an integrated feature of McGraw-Hill Connect Computer Science. It is an adaptive learning system designed to help students learn faster, study more efﬁ ciently, and 
retain more knowledge for greater success. LearnSmart assesses a student’s knowl-
edge of course content through a series of adaptive questions. It pinpoints concepts 
the student does not understand and maps out a personalized study plan for success. 
This innovative study tool also has features that allow instructors to see exactly what 
students have accomplished and a built-in assessment tool for graded assignments. 
Visit the following site for a demonstration. www.mhlearnsmart.comPowered by the intelligent and adap-
tive LearnSmart engine, SmartBook™ is the ﬁ rst and only continuously adaptive reading experience available today. Distin-

guishing what students know from what they don’t, and honing in on concepts they 
are most likely to forget, SmartBook personalizes content for each student. Reading 
is no longer a passive and linear experience but an engaging and dynamic one, where 
students are more likely to master and retain important concepts, coming to class 
better prepared. SmartBook includes powerful reports that identify speciﬁ c topics 
and learning objectives students need to study. When coupled with its online support system, the eighth edition of  Software 
 Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach,  provides ﬂ exibility and depth of content that 
cannot be achieved by a textbook alone. 
 With this edition of  Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach,  Bruce Maxim joins me (Roger Pressman) as a coauthor of the book. Bruce brought copious software 
engineering knowledge to the project and has added new content and insight that will 
be invaluable to readers of this edition.  
  Acknowledgments. 
  Special thanks go to Tim Lethbridge of the University of Ottawa who assisted us in the development of UML and OCL examples, and developed the 
case study that accompanies this book, and Dale Skrien of Colby College, who devel-
oped the UML tutorial in Appendix 1. Their assistance and comments were invaluable. 