662 PART 
THREE  QUALITY MANAGEMENT  
The count total shown in   Figure 30.3   must be adjusted using Equation (30.1). For the purposes of this example, we assume that S ( F  

i ) is 46 (a moderately com-plex product). Therefore,FP 5 50 3 [0.65 1 (0.01 3 46)] 5 56   Based on the projected FP value derived from the requirements model, the proj-
ect team can estimate the overall implemented size of the  SafeHome  user inter-
action function. Assume that past data indicates that one FP translates into 60 
lines of code (an object-oriented language is to be used) and that 12 FPs are pro-
duced for each person-month of effort. These historical data provide the project 
manager with important planning information that is based on the requirements 
model rather than preliminary estimates. Assume further that past projects 
have found an average of three errors per function point during requirements 
and design reviews and four errors per function point during unit and integra-
tion testing. These data can ultimately help you assess the completeness of your 
review and testing activities. Uemura and his colleagues [Uem99] suggest that 
function points can also be computed from UML class and sequence diagrams.     
30.2.2   Metrics for Speciﬁ cation Quality 
      
Davis and his colleagues [Dav93] propose a list of characteristics that can be used 
to assess the quality of the requirements model and the corresponding require-
ments speciﬁ cation:  
speciﬁ city  (lack of ambiguity),  completeness, correctness, 
understandability, veriﬁ ability, internal and external consistency, achievability, 

concision, traceability, modiﬁ
 ability, precision,
  and  reusability.
  In addition, the authors note that high-quality speciﬁ cations are electronically stored; execut-
able or at least interpretable; annotated by relative importance; and stable, ver-

sioned, organized, cross-referenced, and speciﬁ ed at the right level of detail. 
 Although many of these characteristics appear to be qualitative in nature, each can be represented using one or more metrics. [Dav93] For example, we 
assume that there are  n  

r  requirements in a speciﬁ cation, such that
 n  

r  
5  n  
f  
1  n  
nf     uote: 
 “Rather than just 

musing on what 
‘new metric’ might 

should also be 
asking ourselves 
the more basic 
question, ‘What 
will we do with 
metrics?’”   Michael Mah 
and Larry 
Putnam    By measuring 

 characteristics of 

the speciﬁ cation, it 

is  possible to gain 

quantitative insight 
into speciﬁ city and 

completeness.   F
IGURE 30.3 Computing 

function points   
External Inputs (EIs)
3External Outputs (EOs)
3External Inquiries (EQs)
3External Interface Files (EIFs)
3Count totalInternal Logical Files (ILFs)
33
4
3
57=
=
=
==4
5
4
7106
7
61015InformationDomain Value
Weighting factor
CountSimpleAverageComplex
9
8
620
5073
2
2
41