CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 321 
 
 
 
15.1.3 Make the Interface Consistent 
  
The interface should present and acquire information in a consistent fashion. This implies that (1) all visual information is organized according to design rules 
that are maintained throughout all screen displays, (2) input mechanisms are 
constrained to a limited set that is used consistently throughout the application, 
and (3) mechanisms for navigating from task to task are consistently deﬁ ned and 
implemented. Mandel [Man97] deﬁ nes a set of design principles that help make 
the interface consistent:  
 
 
 
 
Allow the user to put the current task into a meaningful context. 
 Many 
interfaces implement complex layers of interactions with dozens of 

screen images. It is important to provide indicators (e.g., window titles, 

graphical icons, consistent color coding) that enable the user to know 

the context of the work at hand. In addition, the user should be able to 

determine where he has come from and what alternatives exist for a 

transition to a new task. 
   
 
 
 
Maintain consistency across a complete product line. 
 A family of applica-tions (i.e., a product line) should implement the same design rules so that 
consistency is maintained for all interaction.    
 
 
 
If past interactive models have created user expectations, do not make changes unless there is a compelling reason to do so. 
 Once a particular interactive sequence has become a de facto standard (e.g., the use of alt-S 
to save a ﬁ le), the user expects this in every application encountered. A 
change (e.g., using alt-S to invoke scaling) will cause confusion.  
 
  The interface design principles discussed in this and the preceding sections provide you with basic guidance. In the sections that follow, you’ll learn about the 

interface design process itself.  
 
 
  
 uote:  “Things that look 
different should act 
different. Things 
that look the same 
should act the 
same.”  Larry Marine 
  
 
 
 
Jamie:  Uh, we could provide a list of operational 
 cameras and their locations.    
 
 
 
Vinod:  That’s possible, but why should he have to ask 
for a list?    
 
 
 
Jamie:  Okay, we provide the list whether he asks or 
not.    
 
 
 
Vinod:  Better. At least he doesn’t have to remember 
stuff that we can give him.    
 
 
 
Jamie (thinking for a moment):  But you like the 
ﬂ oor plan, don’t you? 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  Uh huh. 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  Which one will marketing like, do you think? 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  You’re kidding, right? 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  No. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  Duh … the one with the ﬂ
 ash … they love sexy 
product features … they’re not interested in which is 
easier to build.    
 
 
 
Jamie (sighing):  Okay, maybe I’ll prototype both. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  Good idea … then we let the customer decide. 
 
 
 pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   321pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32113/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM