586 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 27.2  
SECURITY AND PRIVACY
 IN AN ONLINE WORLD  
 
Internet activity is moving away from traditional desktop browsing and toward scenarios in which browsers provide dynamic, customized content. Users can 
enter their own content on community forums that incorporate data mash-ups 
from third-party sites. Many desktop applications make use of web browser in-
terfaces to access local data and provide a uniform user experience on multiple 
computing platforms. As a consequence, web developers need better control and 
security mechanisms. Data and code from untrusted sources should not be given 
the same privileges as a trusted programmer’s code. For the web browser to be 

an effective user interface, privacy, trust, and security need to be among its most 

important quality attributes [Sei11].   In many instances a user’s conﬁ
 dential information ﬂ
 ows across organiza-
tional boundaries on the Internet. For example, electronic patient information 
may need to be shared among hospitals, insurance companies, and physicians. 
Similarly, travel information may need to be shared among travel agencies, ho-

tels, and airlines. In these situations, users must reveal personal information to 
receive a service. Often the user is not able to control what an organization does   uote  ”Relying on the 
government to 
protect your 
privacy is like 
asking a peeping 
tom to install your 
window blinds.“  John Perry 
Barlow   
 
Stakeholder Security Concerns    
 
Stakeholder Security Concerns   
 
The scene:  Software engineering 
team workspace.   
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; 
Vinod Raman, software team member; Ed Robbins, soft-
ware team member, Doug Miller, software engineering 

manager; and Lisa Perez, marketing team members, 
and a product engineering representative.   
The conversation:    
Vinod:  If it’s okay, I’ll act as facilitator for this meeting. 
 (Everyone nods in agreement) 
  
We need to begin determining the security concerns for 
the  SafeHome 
 Project.   
Doug:  Can we begin by listing the things we’re worried 
about protecting? 
  
Jamie:  Well, what if an outsider hacks into  
SafeHome 
 and manages to rob or damage a homeowner’s house? 
  
Lisa:  The company’s reputation would suffer if it was 
known some hacker disabled our systems.   
Jamie:  Not to mention the liability if the system was 
determined to be poorly designed. 
  
Doug:  The web interface to the product makes it possible 
for someone to intercept passwords as they’re transmitted. 
  
Ed:  More importantly, the web interface will require a 
database containing customer information, so we have 

privacy concerns. 
  
Vinod:  Perhaps this would be a good time to have 
everyone spend 10 minutes listing each asset they think 

might be lost or compromised by an attack.   [10 minutes pass]   
Vinod:  OK, let’s post them on the whiteboard and see 
if there are similar concerns. 
 [15 minutes and the list is created]   
Lisa:  That looks like a lot of concerns. How can we 
handle them all?   
Doug:  We need to prioritize our list based on the cost 
to repair the damage caused by losing the asset.   
Lisa:  How can we do that? 
  
Vinod:  We need to get real costs for replacing the lost 
assets using historic project data. And Lisa, you need 
to talk to legal and get their take on what our liability 
might be.  
 
  
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   586pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   58616/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM