CHAPTER 11  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: BEHAVIOR, PATTERNS, AND WEB/MOBILE APPS
 215aesthetic look and feel, the size of snapshot views, the placement of camera views and the house ﬂ oor plan, or even minutiae such as the maximum and min-
imum length of passwords. Some of these aspects are design decisions (such as 
the layout of the buttons) and others are requirements (such as the length of the 
passwords) that don’t fundamentally inﬂ uence early design work. 
 But some missing information might actually inﬂ uence the overall design itself 
and relate more to an actual understanding of the requirements. For example:  
 
 
 
 
 
Q1:  What output video resolution is provided by  SafeHome 
 cameras?    
 
 
 
 
Q2:  What occurs if an alarm condition is encountered while the cam-era is being monitored?    
 
 
 
 
Q3:  How does the system handle cameras that can be panned and zoomed?    
 
 
 
 
Q4:  What information should be provided along with the camera view? (For example, location? time/date? last previous access?)  
 
  None of these questions were identiﬁ ed or considered in the initial develop-
ment of the use case, and yet, the answers could have a substantial effect on 
different aspects of the design.  Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that although the communication ac-tivity provides a good foundation for understanding, requirements analysis re-
ﬁ nes this understanding by providing additional interpretation. As the problem 
structure is delineated as part of the requirements model, questions invariably 
arise. It is these questions that ﬁ ll in the gaps—or in some cases, actually help us 
to ﬁ nd the gaps in the ﬁ
 rst place. 
 To summarize, the inputs to the requirements model will be the information 
collected during the communication activity—anything from an informal e-mail 
to a detailed project brief complete with comprehensive usage scenarios and 
product speciﬁ cations. 
 
 
 
11.5.3  Requirements Modeling Output 
 
Requirements analysis provides a disciplined mechanism for representing and evaluating application content and function, the modes of interaction that users 
will encounter, and the environment and infrastructure in which the WebApp or 

mobile app resides.  Each of these characteristics can be represented as a set of models that allow application requirements to be analyzed in a structured manner. While the spe-

ciﬁ c models depend largely upon the nature of the application, there are ﬁ
 ve 
main classes of models:  
 
 
•   
Content model 
—identiﬁ es the full spectrum of content to be provided by 
the application. Content includes text, graphics and images, video, and 
audio data.  pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   215pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   21513/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM