62 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
Process technology tools allow a software organization to build an automated model of the process framework, task sets, and umbrella activities discussed in 
Chapter 3. The model, normally represented as a network, can then be analyzed 
to determine typical workﬂ ow and examine alternative process structures that 
might lead to reduced development time or cost.  Once an acceptable process has been created, other process technology tools can be used to allocate, monitor, and even control all software engineering ac-

tivities, actions, and tasks deﬁ ned as part of the process model. Each member 
of a software team can use such tools to develop a checklist of work tasks to be 
performed, work products to be produced, and quality assurance activities to be 
conducted. The process technology tool can also be used to coordinate the use of 
other software engineering tools that are appropriate for a particular work task.   
 
 
Process Modeling Tools 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
If an organization works to improve a business (or software) process, it must ﬁ rst understand it. Process modeling tools (also 
called  process technology 
 or  process management 
 tools) are used to represent the key elements of a process so 
that it can be better understood. Such tools can also 
provide links to process descriptions that help those 
involved in the process to understand the actions and 
work tasks that are required to perform it. Process 

modeling tools provide links to other tools that provide 
support to deﬁ
 ned process activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
Tools in this category allow a team 
to deﬁ ne the elements of a unique process model 
(actions, tasks, work products, QA points), provide detailed guidance on the content or description of each process element, and then manage the process as it is 
conducted. In some cases, the process technology tools 
incorporate standard project management tasks such as 
estimating, scheduling, tracking, and control.   
 
 
Representative tools:20  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Igrafx Process Tools
 
—tools that enable a team to map, measure, and model the software process ( http://
www.igrafx.com/
 
)    
 
 
 
Adeptia BPM Server
 
—designed to manage, automate, and optimize business processes ( www.adeptia
.com 
)    
 
 
 
ALM Studio Suite 
—a collection of tools with a heavy emphasis on the management of communication and 
modeling activities ( http://www.kovair.com/
 
)  
 
 
  
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
20  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
 
 
 
 4.6 P
RODUCT AND PROCESS  
 
If the process is weak, the end product will undoubtedly suffer. But an obsessive 
overreliance on process is also dangerous. In a brief essay written many years 
ago, Margaret Davis [Dav95a] makes timeless comments on the duality of prod-
uct and process:  
About every ten years give or take ﬁ ve, the software community redeﬁ
 nes “the 
problem” by shifting its focus from product issues to process issues. Thus, we have pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   62pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   6213/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM