736 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
values discussed in Chapter 30—are estimated. The resultant estimates can then be used to derive an FP value that can be tied to past data and used to generate 
an estimate.  
 
 
   
Regardless of the estimation variable that is used, you should begin by esti-mating a range of values for each function or information domain value. Using 
historical data or (when all else fails) intuition, estimate an optimistic, most 
likely, and pessimistic size value for each function or count for each information 

domain value. An implicit indication of the degree of uncertainty is provided 
when a range of values is speciﬁ ed. 
 A three-point or expected value can then be computed. The  expected value 
 for the estimation variable (size)  S 
 can be computed as a weighted average of the 
optimistic ( s opt), most likely ( s 
 m 
), and pessimistic ( s pess) estimates. For example,  S 
 5    s opt 1 4 s 
 m 
 1  s pess  ________________ 6   (33.1)
 gives heaviest credence to the “most likely” estimate and follows a beta probabil-ity distribution. We assume that there is a very small probability the actual size 

result will fall outside the optimistic or pessimistic values.  Once the expected value for the estimation variable has been determined, historical LOC or FP productivity data are applied. Are the estimates correct? 
The only reasonable answer to this question is, we can’t be sure. Any estimation 
technique, no matter how sophisticated, must be cross-checked with another ap-
proach. Even then, common sense and experience must prevail.   
 
 
33.6.3   
An Example of LOC-Based Estimation  
As an example of LOC and FP problem-based estimation techniques, we consider a software package to be developed for a computer-aided design application for 

mechanical components. The software is to execute on a desktop workstation 
and must interface with various computer graphics peripherals including a 
mouse, digitizer, high-resolution color display, and laser printer. A preliminary 

statement of software scope can be developed:   
 
 
 
 
 
The mechanical CAD software will accept two- and three-dimensional geometric data from a designer. The designer will interact and control the CAD system through 

a user interface that will exhibit characteristics of good human/machine interface 
design. All geometric data and other supporting information will be maintained in a 
CAD database. Design analysis modules will be developed to produce the required 
output, which will be displayed on a variety of devices. The software will be designed 
to control and interact with peripheral devices that include a mouse, scanner, laser 

printer, and plotter. 
  
This statement of scope is preliminary—it is not bounded. Every sentence would have to be expanded to provide concrete detail and quantitative bounding. 
For example, before estimation can begin, the planner must determine what  How do we 
compute the “expected value“ 
for software size? ?   Many modern 

applications reside 
on a network or are 
part of a client-server 

architecture. Therefore, 
be sure that your 
estimates include the 
effort required to de-

velop “infrastructure” 

software. pre22126_ch33_727-753.indd   736pre22126_ch33_727-753.indd   73613/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM