CHAPTER 13  
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 259that update, add, delete, or otherwise modify data within the store.  Figure 13.1  illustrates a typical data-centered style. Client software accesses a central re-
pository. In some cases the data repository is passive. That is, client software 

accesses the data independent of any changes to the data or the actions of other 
client software. A variation on this approach transforms the repository into a 
“blackboard” that sends notiﬁ cations to client software when data of interest to 
the client changes.   
 
Data-centered architectures promote  integrability 
 [Bas03]. That is, exist-
ing components can be changed and new client components added to the 
 architecture without concern about other clients (because the client components  operate independently). In addition, data can be passed among clients using the blackboard mechanism (i.e., the blackboard component serves to coordinate 
the transfer of information between clients). Client components independently 
 execute processes.  
 
 
Data-Flow Architectures.   This architecture is applied when input data are to be transformed through a series of computational or manipulative components 
into output data. A pipe-and-ﬁ lter pattern ( 
Figure 13.2 ) has a set of components, called  ﬁ lters
 
, connected by  pipes 
 that transmit data from one component to the 
next. Each ﬁ lter works independently of those components upstream and down-
stream, is designed to expect data input of a certain form, and produces data 
output (to the next ﬁ lter) of a speciﬁ
 ed form. However, the ﬁ
 lter does not require 
knowledge of the workings of its neighboring ﬁ lters. 
 If the data ﬂ ow degenerates into a single line of transforms, it is termed  
batch sequential 
. This structure accepts a batch of data and then applies a series of sequential components (ﬁ lters) to transform it. 
ClientsoftwareClientsoftwareClientsoftwareClientsoftwareClientsoftwareClientsoftwareClientsoftwareClientsoftwareData store(repository or
blackboard)  
FIGURE 13.1 
Data-centered 
architecture 
 
  
 uote:  “The use of 
patterns and 
styles of design 
is pervasive in 

engineering 
disciplines.”  Mary Shaw and 
David Garlan pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   259pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   25913/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM