90 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
technologies, identifying relevant activities outside of the team and uncov-ering pockets of potential competition.” [Saw08]   
 
 
•   
Guard
 
—protects access to the team’s work products and other informa-
tion artifacts.   
 
 
•   
Sentry 
—controls the ﬂ ow of information that stakeholders and others send 
to the team.   
 
 
•   
Coordinator
 
—focuses on communicating horizontally across the team and within the organization (e.g., discussing a speciﬁ c design problem with a 
group of specialists within the organization).   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6.3 T
HE SOFTWARE
 TEAM   
 
 
  
 
In their classic book  Peopleware,
 
 Tom DeMarco and Tim Lister [DeM98] discuss 
the cohesiveness of a software team:  
We tend to use the word  
team 
 fairly loosely in the business world, calling any group of 
people assigned to work together a “team.” But many of these groups just don’t seem 
like teams. They don’t have a common deﬁ nition of success or any identiﬁ
 able team 
spirit. What is missing is a phenomenon that we call  jell. 
  A   
jelled team  
 is a group of people so strongly knit that the whole is greater than 
 Once a team begins to jell, the probability of success goes way up. The team can . They don’t need to be managed 

in the traditional way, and they certainly don’t need to be motivated. They’ve got 

momentum.  
  
DeMarco and Lister contend that members of jelled teams are signiﬁ cantly 
more productive and more motivated than average. They share a common goal, 
a common culture, and in many cases, a “sense of eliteness” that makes them 
unique.  There is no foolproof method for creating a jelled team. But there are   
attri-butes  
 that are normally found in effective software teams. 
 1 
 
 Miguel Carrasco 
[Car08] suggests that an effective software team must establish a  sense of purpose 
. For example, if all team members agree that the goal of the team is to develop software that will transform a product category, and as a consequence, 

vault their company into an industry leader, they have a strong sense of purpose. 

An effective team must also inculcate a  sense of involvement 
 that allows every 
member to feel that his skill set and contributions are valued.  
 
 
 
    What is a 
“jelled“ team? ?  
1  Bruce Tuckman observes that successful teams go through four phases (Forming, Storming, 
Norming, and Performing) on their way to becoming productive ( 
 
http://www.realsoftware
development.com/7-key-attributes-of-high-performance-software-development-teams/  
) pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   90pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   9013/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM