CHAPTER 2  
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 17 
 
 
2.2.1  The Process Framework 
 
A  process framework
 
 establishes the foundation for a complete software engi-
neering process by identifying a small number of  framework activities 
 that are 
applicable to all software projects, regardless of their size or complexity. In ad-

dition, the process framework encompasses a set of  umbrella activities
 
 that are 
applicable across the entire software process. A generic process framework for 
software engineering encompasses ﬁ ve activities: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Communication.  
 
Before any technical work can commence, it is critically im-portant to communicate and collaborate with the customer (and other stake-
holders).  3 
 
 The intent is to understand stakeholders’ objectives for the project and 
to gather requirements that help deﬁ ne software features and functions. 
 
  
 
 
Planning.  
 
Any complicated journey can be simpliﬁ ed if a map exists. A software 
project is a complicated journey, and the planning activity creates a “map” that 

helps guide the team as it makes the journey. The map—called a software project 

plan—deﬁ nes the software engineering work by describing the technical tasks to 
be conducted, the risks that are likely, the resources that will be required, the 

work products to be produced, and a work schedule.   
 
Modeling.  
 
Whether you’re a landscaper, a bridge builder, an aeronautical engi-
neer, a carpenter, or an architect, you work with models every day. You create a 

“sketch” of the thing so that you’ll understand the big picture—what it will look 
like architecturally, how the constituent parts ﬁ
 t together, and many other char-
acteristics. If required, you reﬁ ne the sketch into greater and greater detail in 
an effort to better understand the problem and how you’re going to solve it. A 
software engineer does the same thing by creating models to better understand 
software requirements and the design that will achieve those requirements.   
 
Construction.  
 
What you design must be built. This activity combines code gen-eration (either manual or automated) and the testing that is required to uncover 
errors in the code.   
 
Deployment.  
 
The software (as a complete entity or as a partially completed in-crement) is delivered to the customer who evaluates the delivered product and 
provides feedback based on the evaluation.  These ﬁ ve generic  
 
framework activities  
 can be used during the development of 
small, simple programs, the creation of Web applications, and for the engineering 
   What are 
the ﬁ ve 
generic process 
framework 
activities? ?  
3  A  stakeholder 
 is anyone who has a stake in the successful outcome of the project—business 
managers, end users, software engineers, support people, etc. Rob Thomsett jokes that, “a 
 
. 
If you don’t look after your stake-
holders, you know where the stake will end up.”   uote:  “Einstein argued 
that there must 
be a simpliﬁ ed 

explanation of 
nature, because 
God is not 
capricious or 
arbitrary. No such 

faith comforts 
the software 
engineer. Much 

of the complexity 
that he must 
master is arbitrary 

complexity.” 
 Fred Brooks 
pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   17pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   1713/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM