774 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
It is also possible to compute the  actual cost of work performed 
 (ACWP). The 
value for ACWP is the sum of the effort actually expended on work tasks that 
have been completed by a point in time on the project schedule. It is then possi-
ble to computeCost performance index, CPI 5   BCWP _______ ACWP  Cost variance, CV 5 BCWP 2 ACWP  A CPI value close to 1.0 provides a strong indication that the project is within its deﬁ ned budget. CV is an absolute indication of cost savings (against planned 
costs) or shortfall at a particular stage of a project.  Like over-the-horizon radar, earned value analysis illuminates scheduling dif-
ﬁ culties before they might otherwise be apparent. This enables you to take cor-
rective action before a project crisis develops.  34.7  
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY  
Scheduling is the culmination of a planning activity that is a primary component of software project management. When combined with estimation methods and 
risk analysis, scheduling establishes a road map for the project manager. 
 Scheduling begins with process decomposition. The characteristics of the project are used to adapt an appropriate task set for the work to be done. A 
task network depicts each engineering task, its dependency on other tasks, and 
its projected duration. The task network is used to compute the critical path, 
a time-line chart, and a variety of project information. Using the schedule as a 
guide, you can track and control each step in the software process.   
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
34.1.  “Unreasonable” deadlines are a fact of life in the software business. How should you proceed if you’re faced with one?    
 
34.2.  What is the difference between a macroscopic schedule and a detailed schedule? Is it possible to manage a project if only a macroscopic schedule is developed? Why?    
 
34.3.  Is there ever a case where a software project milestone is not tied to a review? If so, provide one or more examples.    
 
34.4.  “Communication overhead” can occur when multiple people work on a software proj-ect. The time spent communicating with others reduces individual productively (LOC/
month), and the result can be less productivity for the team. Illustrate (quantitatively) how 
engineers who are well versed in good software engineering practices and use technical 
reviews can increase the production rate of a team (when compared to the sum of individual 
production rates). Hint: You can assume that reviews reduce rework and that rework can 

account for 20 to 40 percent of a person’s time. 
   
 
34.5.  Although adding people to a late software project can make it later, there are circum-
stances in which this is not true. Describe them.  pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   774pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   77413/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM