836 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
practices, an agile SPI framework should emphasize only a few pivotal practices (e.g., analogous to the framework activities discussed throughout this book).  Any attempt at SPI demands a knowledgeable workforce, but education and training expenses can be expensive and should be minimized (and streamlined). 
Rather than classroom courses (expensive and time-consuming), future SPI 
efforts should rely on Web-based training that is targeted at pivotal practices. 

Rather than far-reaching attempts to change organizational culture (with all of 

the political perils that ensue), cultural change should occur as it does in the real 
world, one small group at a time until a tipping point is reached.  The SPI work of the past two decades has signiﬁ cant merit. The frameworks 
and models that have been developed represent substantial intellectual assets 
for the software engineering community. But like all things, these assets guide 

future attempts at SPI not by becoming a recurring dogma, but by serving as the 
basis for better, simpler, and more agile SPI models. 
  
 
 
 
 
 37.8 S
UMMARY  
A software process improvement framework deﬁ nes the characteristics that 
must be present if an effective software process is to be achieved, an assessment 
method that helps determine whether those characteristics are present, and 
a strategy for assisting a software organization in implementing those process 
characteristics that have been found to be weak or missing. Regardless of the 
constituency that sponsors SPI, the goal is to improve process quality and, as a 
consequence, improve software quality and timeliness.  A process maturity model provides an overall indication of the “process ma-turity” exhibited by a software organization. It provides a qualitative feel for the 
relative effectiveness of the software process that is currently being used.  The SPI road map begins with assessment—a series of evaluation activities that uncover both strengths and weaknesses in the way your organization ap-
plies the existing software process and the software engineering practices that 
populate the process. As a consequence of assessment, a software organization 
can develop an overall SPI plan.  One of the key elements of any SPI plan is education and training, an activity that focuses on improving the knowledge level of managers and practitioners. 
Once staff becomes well versed in current software technologies, selection and 
justiﬁ cation commence. These tasks lead to choices about the architecture of the 
software process, the methods that populate it, and the tools that support it. In-
stallation and evaluation are SPI activities that instantiate process changes and 
assess their efﬁ cacy and impact. 
 To successfully improve its software process, an organization must exhibit the 
following characteristics: management commitment and support for SPI, staff 
involvement throughout the SPI process, process integration into the overall pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   836pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   83613/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM