CHAPTER 29  
SOFTWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
 645 
 
 
In addition to these elements, the management subsystem implements an ad-ministration function that encompasses the metadata and rules that control the 
overall structure of the content and the manner in which it is supported.   
 
 
 
The publishing subsystem.   
Content must be extracted from the repository, con-
verted to a form that is amenable to publication, and formatted so that it can 
be transmitted to client-side browsers. The publishing subsystem accomplishes 
these tasks using a series of templates. Each  template 
 is a function that builds a 
publication using one of three different components [Boi04]:  
 
 
•   
Static elements 
—Text, graphics, media, and scripts that require no further 
processing are transmitted directly to the client side.   
 
 
•   
Publication services 
—Function calls to speciﬁ c retrieval and formatting 
services that personalize content (using predeﬁ ned rules), perform data 
conversion, and build appropriate navigation links.   
 
 
•   
External services 
—Access to external corporate information infrastruc-ture such as enterprise data or “back-room” applications.  
 
  A content management system that encompasses each of these subsystems is applicable for major Web and mobile projects. However, the basic philosophy and 

functionality associated with a CMS are applicable to all dynamic applications.    The publishing subsys-
tem extracts content 
from the repository 

and delivers it to 
client-side browsers.   
 
Content Management   
 Objective: 
 To assist software engineers and 
content developers in managing content that is incorporated into WebApps. 
  Mechanics: 
 Tools in this category enable Web engineers 
and content providers to update WebApp content 

in a controlled manner. Most establish a simple ﬁ
 le 
management system that assigns page-by-page update and 

editing permissions for various types of WebApp content. 

Some maintain a versioning system so that a previous 

version of content can be archived for historical purposes. 
  
Representative Tools:  
 10 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Open Text Web Experience Management,
 
 developed by Vignette (  
http://www.opentext.com/global/
products/web-content-management/web-

experience-management/opentext-web-
experience-management.htm  
), is a suite of enterprise content management tools.   
ektron-CMS300 
, developed by ektron (  
www.ektron.com 
 
), is a suite of tools that provide content management capabilities as well as Web 

development tools.   
OmniUpdate 
, developed by WebsiteASP, Inc. 
(  
www.omniupdate.com 
 
), is a tool that allows authorized content providers to develop controlled 
updates to speciﬁ ed WebApp content. 
 Additional information on SCM and content management 
tools for Web engineering can be found at one 

or more of the following websites:  WebDeveloper
  (  
www.webdeveloper.com 
 
),  Developer Shed  ( www.devshed.com
 
),  webknowhow.net
  (  
www.webknowhow.net 
 
), or  WebReference
  (  
www.webreference.com 
 
).   
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
10  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   645pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   64513/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM