CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 147 
 
 
 
8.3.4  Elicitation Work Products 
 
 
 
  
 
The work products produced as a consequence of requirements elicitation will vary depending on the size of the system or product to be built. For most systems, 
the work products include: (1) a statement of need and feasibility, (2) a bounded 

statement of scope for the system or product, (3) a list of customers, users, and 
other stakeholders who participated in requirements elicitation, (4) a descrip-
tion of the system’s technical environment, (5) a list of requirements (prefera-

bly organized by function) and the domain constraints that applies to each, (6) a 
set of usage scenarios that provide insight into the use of the system or product 
under different operating conditions, and (7) any prototypes developed to better  What 
information is produced as 
a consequence 
of requirements 
gathering? ?  
Developing a Preliminary User Scenario   
Developing a Preliminary User Scenario 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  A meeting room, 
continuing the ﬁ rst requirements 
gathering meeting.    
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; 
Vinod Raman, software team member; Ed Robbins, soft-
ware team member; Doug Miller, software engineering 

manager; three members of marketing; a product engi-
neering representative; and a facilitator. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  We’ve been talking about security for ac-
cess to  SafeHome 
 functionality that will be accessible 
via the Internet. I’d like to try something. Let’s develop 

a usage scenario for access to the home security 

function. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  How? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  We can do it a couple of different ways, 
but for now, I’d like to keep things really informal. Tell 

us (he points at a marketing person) how you envision 
accessing the system.    
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person:  
thing I’d do if I was away from home and I had to let 
someone into the house, say a housekeeper or repair 
guy, who didn’t have the security code. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator (smiling):  That’s the reason you’d do 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person: ﬁ
 rst thing I’d need is 
a PC. I’d log on to a website we’d maintain for all users 
of  SafeHome.    
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod (interrupting):  The Web page would have to be 
secure, encr 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator (interrupting):  That’s good information, 
Vinod, but it’s technical. Let’s just focus on how the end 

user will use this capability. OK? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  No problem. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person:  So as I was saying, I’d log on 
to a website and provide my user ID and two levels of 
passwords.    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  What if I forget my password? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator (interrupting):  Good point, Jamie, but 
let’s not address that now. We’ll make a note of that 

and call it an  exception.  I’m sure there’ll be others.    
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person:  After I enter the passwords, a 
screen representing all  SafeHome 
 functions will appear. 
I’d select the home security function. The system might 
request that I verify who I am, say, by asking for my ad-

dress or phone number or something. It would then dis-
play a picture of the security system control panel along 
with a list of functions that I can perform—arm the 

system, disarm the system, disarm one or more sensors. 

I suppose it might also allow me to reconﬁ gure security 
zones and other things like that, but I’m not sure.    
(As the marketing person continues talking, Doug takes copious notes; these form the basis for the ﬁ
 rst informal 
usage scenario. Alternatively, the marketing person 

could have been asked to write the scenario, but this 
would be done outside the meeting.)   
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   147pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14713/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM