174 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
Developing Another Preliminary User Scenario  
 
Developing Another Preliminary User Scenario 
 
 
 
The scene:  A meeting room, during 
the second requirements-gathering 
meeting.   
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; Ed 
Robbins, software team member; Doug Miller, software 

engineering manager; three members of marketing; a 
product engineering representative; and a facilitator. 
  
The conversation:    
Facilitator:  It’s time that we begin talking about the 
 SafeHome 
 surveillance function. Let’s develop a user 
scenario for access to the surveillance function. 
  
Jamie:  Who plays the role of the actor on this? 
  
Facilitator:  I think Meredith (a marketing person) has 
been working on that functionality. Why don’t you play 

the role?   
Meredith:  You want to do it the same way we did it 
last time, right?   
Facilitator: way. 
  
Meredith:  Well, obviously the reason for surveillance 
is to allow the homeowner to check out the house while 
he or she is away, to record and play back video that is 

t of thing. 
  
Ed:  Will we use compression to store the video? 
  
Facilitator:  Good question, Ed, but let’s postpone 
 implementation issues for now. Meredith? 
  
Meredith:  Okay, so basically there are two parts 
to the sur
 rst conﬁ
 gures the 
system including laying out a ﬂ oor plan—we have to 
have tools to help the homeowner do this—and the sec-
ond part is the actual surveillance function itself. Since 

the layout is part of the conﬁ
 guration activity, I’ll focus 
on the surveillance function. 
  
Facilitator (smiling):  Took the words right out of my 
mouth.   
Meredith:  -
veillance function either via the PC or via the Internet. 

My feeling is that the Internet access would be more 

frequently used. Anyway, I want to be able to display 

camera views on a PC and control pan and zoom for 
a speciﬁ c camera. I specify the camera by selecting it 
from the house ﬂ oor plan. I want to selectively record 
camera output and replay camera output. I also want 
to be able to block access to one or more cameras with 
a speciﬁ c password. I also want the option of seeing 
small windows that show views from all cameras and 
then be able to pick the one I want enlarged.   
Jamie:  Those are called thumbnail views. 
  
Meredith:  Okay, then I want thumbnail views of all 
the cameras. I also want the interface for the surveil-

lance function to have the same look and feel as all 
other  SafeHome 
 interfaces. I want it to be intuitive, 
meaning I don’t want to have to read a manual to 

  
Facilitator:  Good job. Now, let’s go into this function 
  
SAFEHOME  
 
The  SafeHome 
 home surveillance function (subsystem) discussed in the side-
bar identiﬁ es the following functions (an abbreviated list) that are performed by 
the  homeowner 
 actor: 
 
 
 
•  Select camera to view. 
  
 
 
•  Request thumbnails from all cameras.   
 
 
•  Display camera views in a PC window. 
  
 
 
•  Control pan and zoom for a speciﬁ c camera. 
  
 
 
•  Selectively record camera output.   
 
 
•  Replay camera output.   
 
 
•  Access camera surveillance via the Internet.  
 
 pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   174pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   17413/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM