CHAPTER 23  
TESTING CONVENTIONAL APPLICATIONS
 513output report that produces the maximum (and minimum) allowable num-ber of table entries.   
 
 
 4.
  If internal program data structures have prescribed boundaries (e.g., a table has a deﬁ ned limit of 100 entries), be certain to design a test case to 
exercise the data structure at its boundary. 
  Most software engineers intuitively perform BVA to some degree. By applying 
these guidelines, boundary testing will be more complete, thereby having a 
higher likelihood for error detection.  
  
 
 
 
23.6.4   
Orthogonal Array Testing 
 
 
 
There are many applications in which the input domain is relatively limited. That is, the number of input parameters is small and the values that each of the 
parameters may take are clearly bounded. When these numbers are very small 
(e.g., three input parameters taking on three discrete values each), it is possible to 
consider every input permutation and exhaustively test the input domain. How-
ever, as the number of input values grows and the number of discrete values for 

each data item increases, exhaustive testing becomes impractical or impossible.   
Orthogonal array testing 
 can be applied to problems in which the input do-
main is relatively small but too large to accommodate exhaustive testing. The or-

thogonal array testing method is particularly useful in ﬁ nding  
region faults
 
—an error category associated with faulty logic within a software component.  To illustrate the difference between orthogonal array testing and more con-
ventional “one input item at a time” approaches, consider a system that has 
three input items,  X, Y,
 
 and  
Z. 
 Each of these input items has three discrete values 
associated with it. There are 3 3  5 27 possible test cases. Phadke [Pha97] suggests 
a geometric view of the possible test cases associated with X, Y, and Z illustrated 

in  Figure 23.9 . Referring to the ﬁ gure, one input item at a time may be varied in 
sequence along each input axis. This results in relatively limited coverage of the 
input domain (represented by the left-hand cube in the ﬁ gure). 
    Orthogonal array 
testing enables you 
to design test cases 
that provide maximum 
test coverage with a 
reasonable number of 
test cases. YYXXZZOne input item at a timeL9 orthogonal array
  
FIGURE 23.9 
A geometric view of test 
cases 
 Source: [Pha97].  
 pre22126_ch23_496-522.indd   513pre22126_ch23_496-522.indd   51313/12/13   6:14 PM13/12/13   6:14 PM