CHAPTER 11  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: BEHAVIOR, PATTERNS, AND WEB/MOBILE APPS
 209 
 
Software in many different application domains is required to monitor sensors and control physical actuators. It follows that an analysis pattern that describes 
generic requirements for this capability could be used widely. The pattern, called 

 Actuator-Sensor
 
 
,  would be applicable as part of the requirements model for 
 SafeHome 
 and is discussed in Section 11.4.2.  
 
 
11.4.2  A Requirements Pattern Example: Actuator-Sensor 
5   
 
One of the requirements of the  SafeHome 
 security function is the ability to mon-itory security sensors (e.g., break-in sensors, ﬁ re, smoke or CO sensors, water 
sensors). Internet-based extensions to  SafeHome 
 will require the ability to con-
trol the movement (e.g., pan, zoom) of a security camera within a residence. The 
implication— SafeHome 
 software must manage various sensors and “actuators” 
(e.g., camera control mechanisms).  Konrad and Cheng [Kon02] have suggested a requirements pattern named  Actuator-Sensor
 
 that provides useful guidance for modeling this requirement 
within  SafeHome 
 software. An abbreviated version of the  
Actuator-Sensor
 
 pat-
tern, originally developed for automotive applications, follows.   
Pattern Name.   
 
Actuator-Sensor
 
  
 
 
Intent.   
Specify various kinds of sensors and actuators in an embedded system.  
 
Discovering an Analysis Pattern  
 
Discovering an Analysis Pattern  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  A meeting room, during 
a team meeting.    
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; Ed 
Robbins, software team member; Doug Miller, software 

engineering manager    
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  How are things going with modeling the re-
quirements for the sensor network for the  SafeHome 
 project?    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  Sensor work is a little new to me, but I think 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Is there anything we can do to help you with 
that?    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  It would be a lot easier if I’d built a system like 
this before.    
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  True. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Ed:  I was thinking this is a situation where we might 
be able to ﬁ nd an analysis pattern that would help us 
model these requirements.    
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  If we can ﬁ
 nd the right pattern, we’d avoid rein-
venting the wheel.    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  That sounds good to me. How do we start? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Ed:  We have access to a repository that contains a 
large number of analysis and design patterns. We just 

need to search for patterns with intents that match our 

needs.    
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  That seems like that might work. What do you 
think, Jamie?    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  If Ed can help me get started, I’ll tackle this 
today. 
 
 
  
SAFEHOME  
 
5  This section has been adapted from [Kon02] with the permission of the authors. 
pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   209pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   20913/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM