422 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
19.3.2   
The Cost of Quality  
The argument goes something like this— we know that quality is important, but it costs us time and money—too much time and money to get the level of software 

quality we really want.
 
 On its face, this argument seems reasonable (see Meyer’s 
comments earlier in this section). There is no question that quality has a cost, but 
lack of quality also has a cost—not only to end users who must live with buggy 
software, but also to the software organization that has built and must maintain 
it. The real question is this:  which cost should we be worried about? 
 To answer 
this question, you must understand both the cost of achieving quality and the cost 
of low-quality software.  The  cost of quality 
 includes all costs incurred in the pursuit of quality or 
in performing quality-related activities and the downstream costs of lack of 

quality. To understand these costs, an organization should collect metrics to 

provide a baseline for the current cost of quality, identify opportunities for 

reducing these costs, and provide a normalized basis of comparison. The cost 

of quality can be divided into costs associated with prevention, appraisal, and 

failure. 
  
 
 
Prevention costs
 
 include (1) the cost of management activities required to 
plan and coordinate all quality control and quality assurance activities, (2) the 
cost of added technical activities to develop complete requirements and design 
 models, (3) test planning costs, and (4) the cost of all training associated with these activities.   
Appraisal costs 
 include activities to gain insight into product condition the 
“ﬁ rst time through” each process. Examples of appraisal costs include: (1) the 
cost of conducting technical reviews (Chapter 20) for software engineering work 
products, (2) the cost of data collection and metrics evaluation (Chapter 30), and 
(3) the cost of testing and debugging (Chapters 22 through 26).    
Failure costs
 
 are those that would disappear if no errors appeared before 
shipping a product to customers. Failure costs may be subdivided into internal 
failure costs and external failure costs.  Internal failure costs
 
 are incurred when 
you detect an error in a product prior to shipment. Internal failure costs include: 
(1) the cost required to perform rework (repair) to correct an error, (2) the cost 

that occurs when rework inadvertently generates side effects that must be miti-
gated, and (3) the costs associated with the collection of quality metrics that allow 
an organization to assess the modes of failure.  External failure costs
 
 are asso-
ciated with defects found after the product has been shipped to the customer. 

Examples of external failure costs are complaint resolution, product return and 
replacement, help line support, and labor costs associated with warranty work. 
A poor reputation and the resulting loss of business is another external failure 
cost that is difﬁ cult to quantify but nonetheless very real. Bad things happen 
when low-quality software is produced.    Don’t be afraid to incur 
signiﬁ cant prevention 

costs. Rest assured 
that your investment 
will provide an 
 excellent return. 
  
 
 uote:  “It takes less time 
to do a thing right 
than to explain 
why you did it 
wrong.”  H. W. 
Longfellow pre22126_ch19_411-430.indd   422pre22126_ch19_411-430.indd   42213/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM