756 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
The estimation methods discussed in Chapter 33 and the scheduling tech-niques described in this chapter are often implemented under the constraint of 
a deﬁ ned deadline. If best estimates indicate that the deadline is unrealistic, a 
competent project manager should “protect his or her team from undue [sched-
 ect the pressure back to its originators” [Pag85]. 
  
To illustrate, assume that your software team has been asked to build a 
real-time controller for a medical diagnostic instrument that is to be introduced 
to the market in nine months. After careful estimation and risk analysis (Chapter 
35), you come to the conclusion that the software, as requested, will require 14 
calendar months to create with available staff. How should you proceed?  It is unrealistic to march into the customer’s ofﬁ
 ce (in this case the likely cus-
tomer is marketing/sales) and demand that the delivery date be changed. Exter-

nal market pressures have dictated the date, and the product must be released. 
It is equally foolhardy to refuse to undertake the work (from a career standpoint). 
So, what to do? we recommend the following steps in this situation:  
 
 
 1.
  Perform a detailed estimate using historical data from past projects. Determine the estimated effort and duration for the project.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.
  Using an incremental process model (Chapter 4), develop a software engi-neering strategy that will deliver critical functionality by the imposed 
deadline, but delay other functionality until later. Document the plan. 
  
 
 
 3.
  Meet with the customer and (using the detailed estimate), explain why the imposed deadline is unrealistic. Be certain to note that all estimates 
are based on performance on past projects. Also be certain to indicate the 
percent improvement that would be required to achieve the deadline as it 
currently exists.  2 
 
 The following comment is appropriate:  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I think we may have a problem with the delivery date for the XYZ controller soft-
ware. I’ve given each of you an abbreviated breakdown of development rates for 

past software projects and an estimate that we’ve done a number of different ways. 

You’ll note that I’ve assumed a 20 percent improvement in past development rates, 

but we still get a delivery date that’s 14 calendar months rather than 9 months away. 
 
 
  
 
 
 4.
  Offer the incremental development strategy as an alternative:  
 
   
 
We have a few options, and I’d like you to make a decision based on them. First, we 
can increase the budget and bring on additional resources so that we’ll have a shot 
at getting this job done in nine months. But understand that this will increase the 
risk of poor quality due to the tight time line.  
3 
 
 Second, we can remove a number of 
 
 uote:  “I love deadlines. I 
like the whooshing 
sound they make 
as they ﬂ y by.” 
 Douglas Adams 
 What should 

we do when management 
demands that 
we make a 
deadline that is 
impossible? ?  
 
 
 
 
2.  If the required improvement is 10 to 25 percent, it may actually be possible to get the job done. 
But, more likely, the required improvement in team performance will be greater than 50 per-

cent. This is an unrealistic expectation.   
3.  You might also add that increasing the number of people does not reduce calendar time 
proportionally. 
pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   756pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   75613/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM