326 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
•  Is the software to be an integral part of the work users do or will it be used only occasionally?   
 
 
•  What is the primary spoken language among users?   
 
 
•  What are the consequences if a user makes a mistake using the system?   
 
 
•  Are users experts in the subject matter that is addressed by the system?   
 
 
•  Do users want to know about the technology that sits behind the interface?  
 
  Once these questions are answered, you’ll know who the end users are, what is likely to motivate and please them, how they can be grouped into different 
user classes or proﬁ les, what their mental models of the system are, and how the 
user interface must be characterized to meet their needs.   
 
15.3.2 Task Analysis and Modeling 
 
 
 
  
 
The goal of task analysis is to answer the following questions: 
 
 
 
•  What work will the user perform in speciﬁ c circumstances? 
  
 
 
•  What tasks and subtasks will be performed as the user does the work?   
 
 
•  What speciﬁ c problem domain objects will the user manipulate as work is 
performed?   
 
 
•  What is the sequence of work tasks—the workﬂ ow? 
  
 
 
•  What is the hierarchy of tasks?  
 
  To answer these questions, you must draw upon techniques that we have dis-
cussed earlier in this book, but in this instance, these techniques are applied to 
the user interface.  
 
 
  
 
 
Use Cases.   
In previous chapters you learned that the use case describes the man-ner in which an actor (in the context of user interface design, an actor is always a 

person) interacts with a system. When used as part of task analysis, the use case is 

developed to show how an end user performs some speciﬁ c work-related task. In 
most instances, the use case is written in an informal style (a simple paragraph) in 

the ﬁ rst person. For example, assume that a small software company wants to build 
a computer-aided design system explicitly for interior designers. To get a better 

understanding of how they do their work, actual interior designers are asked to 

describe a speciﬁ c design function. When asked: “How do you decide where to put 
furniture in a room?” an interior designer writes the following informal use case:  
I begin by sketching the ﬂ oor plan of the room, the dimensions and the location of 
windows and doors. I’m very concerned about light as it enters the room, about the 
view out of the windows (if it’s beautiful, I want to draw attention to it), about the run-

ning length of an unobstructed wall, about the ﬂ ow of movement through the room. 
. Then, I draw a 

rendering (a 3-D picture) of the room to give my customer a feel for what it’ll look like.  
    The user’s goal is to 
accomplish one or 
more tasks via the UI. 
To accomplish this, 

the UI must provide 
mechanisms that allow 
the user to achieve 
her goal.  WebRef 
 An excellent source 
of information on 

user modeling can be 
found at   
http://web.eecs.umich.
edu/~kieras/

docs/GOMS/   pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   326pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32613/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM