CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 143stakeholders work together to identify the problem, propose elements of the solution, negotiate different approaches, and specify a preliminary set of solu-
tion requirements [Zah90].  9 
 
  
 
 
8.3.1  Collaborative Requirements Gathering 
 
 
 
  
 
Many different approaches to collaborative requirements gathering have been proposed. Each makes use of a slightly different scenario, but all apply some 
variation on the following basic guidelines:  
 
 
•  Meetings (either real or virtual) are conducted and attended by both soft-ware engineers and other stakeholders.   
 
 
•  Rules for preparation and participation are established.   
 
 
•  An agenda is suggested that is formal enough to cover all important points but informal enough to encourage the free ﬂ ow of ideas. 
  
 
 
•  A “facilitator” (can be a customer, a developer, or an outsider) controls the 
meeting.   
 
 
•  A “deﬁ nition mechanism” (can be work sheets, ﬂ
 ip charts, or wall stickers 
or an electronic bulletin board, chat room, or virtual forum) is used.  
 
   
The goal is to identify the problem, propose elements of the solution, negotiate different approaches, and specify a preliminary set of solution requirements.  
 
 
   
A one- or two-page “product request” is generated during inception (Section 8.2). 
A meeting place, time, and date are selected; a facilitator is chosen; and attendees 

from the software team and other stakeholder organizations are invited to partic-
ipate. The product request is distributed to all attendees before the meeting date. 
 
 
 
   
As an example,  10 
 
 consider an excerpt from a product request written by a 
marketing person involved in the  SafeHome 
 project. This person writes the fol-
lowing narrative about the home security function that is to be part of  SafeHome:  
 
Our research indicates that the market for home management systems is growing at a rate of 40 percent per year. The ﬁ
 rst  
SafeHome 
 function we bring to market should 
be the home security function. Most people are familiar with “alarm systems” so this 
would be an easy sell.  The home security function would protect against and/or recognize a variety of undesirable “situations” such as illegal entry, ﬁ
 re, ﬂ
 ooding, carbon monoxide levels, 
and others. It’ll use our wireless sensors to detect each situation, can be programmed 
by the homeowner, and will automatically telephone a monitoring agency when a 

situation is detected.  What are 
the basic 
guidelines for 

conducting a 

collaborative 

requirements 

gathering meeting? 
? WebRef 
  
Joint Application Development  (JAD) is a popular technique for 
requirements gather-
ing. A good description 
can be found at 
  www.carolla.com/
wp-jad.htm  . 
  
9  This approach is sometimes called a  
facilitated application speciﬁ cation technique
 
 (FAST). 
  
10  This example (with extensions and variations) is used to illustrate important software engi-
neering methods in many of the chapters that follow. As an exercise, it would be worthwhile to 

conduct your own requirements-gathering meeting and develop a set of lists for it. pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   143pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14313/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM