138 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
 
Requirements management.   Requirements for computerchange, 
and the desire to change requirements persists throughout the life of the system. 

Requirements management is a set of activities that help the project team identify, 

control, and track requirements and changes to requirements at any time as the 

project proceeds.  6 
 
 Many of these activities are identical to the software conﬁ
 gura-
tion management (SCM) techniques discussed in Chapter 29. 
  
6  Formal requirements management is initiated only for large projects that have hundreds of 
identiﬁ able requirements. For small projects, this requirements engineering function is con-
siderably less formal.   
7  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
8  This approach is strongly recommended for projects that adopt an agile software development 
philosophy. 
  
Requirements Engineering 
 
 
 
 
 Objective:   Requirements engineering tools assist in requirements gathering, requirements modeling, requirements management, and requirements 
validation.   
 
Mechanics:   
Tool mechanics vary. In general, 
requirements engineering tools build a variety 
of graphical (e.g., UML) models that depict the 
informational, functional, and behavioral aspects of 

a system. These models form the basis for all other 

activities in the software process.   
 
 
Representative Tools:  7 
 
  
A reasonably comprehensive (and up-to-date) listing of requirements engineering tools can be found at the 
Volvere Requirements resources site at  
 
www.volere.
co.uk/tools.htm 
 
. Requirements modeling tools are discussed in Chapters 9 and 10. Tools noted below 
focus on requirement management.   
EasyRM, 
 developed by Cybernetic Intelligence GmbH 
( http://www.visuresolutions.com/visure-
requirements-software 
), Visure Requirements is a ﬂ exible and complete requirements engineering 
life-cycle solution, supporting requirements capture, 

analysis, speciﬁ cation, validation and veriﬁ
 cation, 
management, and reuse.   
Rational RequisitePro,  developed by Rational Software 
(  
www-03.ibm.com/software/products/us/
en/reqpro
 
 
), allows users to build a requirements 
database; represent relationships among requirements; 

and organize, prioritize, and trace requirements. 
 Many additional requirements management tools can be found at the Volvere site noted earlier and at  
 
www.jiludwig.com/Requirements_Management_
Tools.html
 
 
.  
  
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8.2 E
STABLISHING
 THE GROUNDWORK  
 
In an ideal setting, stakeholders and software engineers work together on the same team.  8 
 
 In such cases, requirements engineering is simply a matter of con-
ducting meaningful conversations with colleagues who are well-known members 
of the team. But reality is often quite different.  Customer(s) or end users may be located in a different city or country, may 
have only a vague idea of what is required, may have conﬂ icting opinions about 
the system to be built, may have limited technical knowledge, and may have pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   138pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   13813/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM