110 PART TWO  
MODELINGframework activities are a reﬁ nement of the principles presented in Section 7.2. 
They are simply core principles stated at a lower level of abstraction.   
 
 
7.3.1  Communication Principles 
 
  
Before customer requirements can be analyzed, modeled, or speciﬁ ed they must 
be gathered through the communication activity. A customer has a problem that 

may be amenable to a computer-based solution. You respond to the customer’s 

request for help. Communication has begun. But the road from communication 
to understanding is often full of potholes.  Effective communication (among technical peers, with the customer and other stakeholders, and with project managers) is among the most challenging activi-
ties that you will confront. In this context, we discuss communication principles 
as they apply to customer communication. However, many of the principles apply 

equally to all forms of communication that occur within a software project.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 1. 
  Listen.Listen. 
 Try to focus on the speaker’s words, rather than for-
mulating your response to those words. Ask for clariﬁ cation if something 
is unclear, but avoid constant interruptions.  
Never 
 become contentious in your words or actions (e.g., rolling your eyes or shaking your head) as a 
person is talking.    
 
 
Principle 2. 
  Prepare before you communicate.Prepare before you communicate.
 
 Spend the time to under-
stand the problem before you meet with others. If necessary, do some 

research to understand business domain jargon. If you have responsibility 
for conducting a meeting, prepare an agenda in advance of the meeting.    
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 3. 
  Someone should facilitate the activity.Someone should facilitate the activity.
 
 Every communication meeting should have a leader (a facilitator) to keep the conversation mov-
ing in a productive direction, (2) to mediate any conﬂ ict that does occur, 
and (3) to ensure that other principles are followed.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 4. 
  Face-to-face communication is best.Face-to-face communication is best. 
 But it usually works bet-ter when some other representation of the relevant information is pres-
ent. For example, a participant may create a drawing or a “strawman” 
document that serves as a focus for discussion.    
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 5. 
  Take notes and document decisions.Take notes and document decisions.
 
 Things have a way of fall-ing into the cracks. Someone participating in the communication should 
serve as a “recorder” and write down all important points and decisions.    
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 6. 
  Strive for collaboration.Strive for collaboration. 
 Collaboration and consensus occur 
when the collective knowledge of members of the team is used to describe 

product or system functions or features. Each small collaboration serves to 

build trust among team members and creates a common goal for the team. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 7. 
  Stay focused; modularize your discussion.Stay focused; modularize your discussion. 
 The more people are involved in any communication, the more likely that discussion will    Before communicating 
be sure you understand 
the point of view of 
the other party, know 

a bit about his or her 
needs, and then listen.   uote:      “Plain questions 
and plain answers 
make the shortest 
road to most 
perplexities.”  Mark Twain 
pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   110pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   11013/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM