80 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
prototyping in a controlled project environment” [CCS02]. The DSDM philosophy is borrowed from a modiﬁ ed version of the Pareto principle—80 percent of an 
application can be delivered in 20 percent of the time it would take to deliver the 
complete (100 percent) application.  DSDM is an iterative software process in which each iteration follows the percent rule. That is, only enough work is required for each increment to 

 facilitate movement to the next increment. The remaining detail can be com-pleted later when more business requirements are known or changes have been 
requested and accommodated.  
 
 
   
The DSDM Consortium (  
www.dsdm.org
 
 
) is a worldwide group of member companies that collectively take on the role of “keeper” of the method. The con-
sortium has deﬁ ned an agile process model, called the  
DSDM life cycle,  
that begins with a  feasibility study 
 that establishes basic business requirements and 
constraints and is followed by a  business study 
 that identiﬁ
 es functional and in-
formation requirements. DSDM then deﬁ nes three different iterative cycles: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Functional model iteration— 
produces a set of incremental prototypes that demonstrate functionality for the customer. (Note: All DSDM prototypes are 

intended to evolve into the deliverable application.) The intent during this iter-

ative cycle is to gather additional requirements by eliciting feedback from users 
as they exercise the prototype.    
 
 
 
 
 
Design and build iteration— 
revisits prototypes built during the functional model iteration to ensure that each has been engineered in a manner that 
will enable it to provide operational business value for end users. In some 
cases, the functional model iteration and the design and build iteration occur 
concurrently. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Implementation— 
places the latest software increment (an “operationalized” prototype) into the operational environment. It should be noted that (1) the in-
crement may not be 100 percent complete or (2) changes may be requested as 
the increment is put into place. In either case, DSDM development work contin-
ues by returning to the functional model iteration activity. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
DSDM can be combined with XP (Section 5.4) to provide a combination ap-proach that deﬁ nes a solid process model (the DSDM life cycle) with the nuts and 
bolts practices (XP) that are required to build software increments.   
 
5.5.3 Agile Modeling 
 
There are many situations in which software engineers must build large,  business-critical systems. The scope and complexity of such systems must be modeled so that (1) all constituencies can better understand what needs to be ac-
complished, (2) the problem can be partitioned effectively among the people who 
must solve it, and (3) quality can be assessed as the system is being engineered 
and built. But in some cases, it can be daunting to manage the volume of notation    DSDM is a process 
framework that can 
adopt the tactics of 
another agile approach 
such as XP. 
 WebRef 
 Comprehensive infor-
mation on agile model-

  www.agilemodel-

ing.com  . 
pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   80pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   8013/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM