CHAPTER 13  
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 281architectural prototype (e.g., a walking skeleton) and developing explicit archi-tectural work products to communicate to the necessary stakeholders, an agile 
team can satisfy the need for architectural design.   
Agile development gives software architects repeated opportunities to work closely with the business and technical teams to guide the direction of a good ar-

chitectural design. Madison [Mad10] suggests the use of a hybrid framework that 
contains elements of Scrum, XP, and sequential project management. 
 19 
 
 In this 
framework up-front planning sets the architectural direction, but moves quickly 
into storyboarding [Bro10b].   
During storyboarding the architect contributes architectural user stories to the project and works with the product owner to prioritize the architectural 
stories with the business user stories as “sprints” (work units) are planned. The 
architect works with the team during the sprint to ensure that the evolving soft-
ware continues to show high architectural quality. If quality is high, the team is 

left alone to continue development on its own. If not, the architect joins the team 
for the duration of the sprint. After the sprint is completed, the architect reviews 
the working prototype for quality before the team presents it to the stakeholders 
in a formal sprint review. Well-run agile projects require the iterative delivery 

of work products (including architectural documentation) with each sprint. Re-
viewing the work products and code as it emerges from each sprint is a useful 
form of architectural review. 
  
Responsibility-driven architecture
 
 (RDA) is a process that focuses on archi-
tectural decision-making. It addresses when and how architectural decisions 
should be made and who on the project team makes them. This approach also 
emphasizes the role of architect as being a servant-leader rather than an auto-
cratic decision maker and is consistent with the agile philosophy. The architect 

acts as facilitator and focuses on how the development team works with stake-
holder concerns from outside the team (e.g., business, security, infrastructure). 
 Agile teams insist on the freedom to make changes as new requirements emerge. Architects want to make sure that the important parts of the architec-
ture were carefully considered and that developers have consulted the appro-
priate stakeholders. Both concerns may be satisﬁ ed by making use of a practice 
called  progressive sign-off
 
 in which the evolving product is documented and ap-
proved as each successive prototype is completed [Bla10].  Using a process that is compatible with the agile philosophy provides veriﬁ -able sign-off for regulators and auditors, without preventing agile teams from 
making decisions as needed. At the end of the project the team has a complete 
set of work products, and the architecture has been reviewed for quality as it 
evolves.   
19  Scrum and XP are agile process models and are discussed in  
Chapter 5 . pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   281pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   28113/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM