CHAPTER 3  
SOFTWARE PROCESS STRUCTURE
 35You should choose a task set that best accommodates the needs of the project 
and the characteristics of your team. This implies that a software engineering 
action can be adapted to the speciﬁ c needs of the software project and the char-
acteristics of the project team.   
 
 
 
 
 
 3.4 P
ROCESS PATTERNS
  
 
Every software team encounters problems as it moves through the software pro-cess. It would be useful if proven solutions to these problems were readily avail-
able to the team so that the problems could be addressed and resolved quickly. A 

 process pattern
 
 
 1 
 
 describes a process-related problem that is encountered during 
software engineering work, identiﬁ es the environment in which the problem has 
been encountered, and suggests one or more proven solutions to the problem. 
Stated in more general terms, a process pattern provides you with a template 
[Amb98]—a consistent method for describing problem solutions within the con-
text of the software process. By combining patterns, a software team can solve 
problems and construct a process that best meets the needs of a project.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patterns can be deﬁ ned at any level of abstraction. 
 2 
 
 In some cases, a pattern 
might be used to describe a problem (and solution) associated with a complete 
process model (e.g., prototyping). In other situations, patterns can be used to 
describe a problem (and solution) associated with a framework activity (e.g., 
  
planning 
) or an action within a framework activity (e.g., project estimating).   
Ambler [Amb98] has proposed a template for describing a process pattern:   
 
 
 
 
Pattern Name. 
 The pattern is given a meaningful name describing it within the context of the software process (e.g.,  TechnicalReviews
 
).   
Forces. 
 The environment in which the pattern is encountered and the  issues that make the problem visible and may affect its solution.   
Type.
 
 The pattern type is speciﬁ ed. Ambler [Amb98] suggests three types:
  
 
 
 1.   Stage pattern 
—deﬁ nes a problem associated with a framework 
  
 multiple actions and work tasks, a stage pattern incorporates mul- 

(framework activity). An example of a stage pattern might be 

 EstablishingCommunication 
. This pattern would incorporate the 
RequirementsGathering 
 and others. 
  
 uote:  “The repetition of 
patterns is quite a 
different thing than 
the repetition of 
parts. Indeed, the 
different parts will 
be unique because 
the patterns are 
the same.”  Christopher 
Alexander  What is 
a process pattern? ?   A pattern template 

provides a consistent 
means for describing a 
pattern. 
  
1  A detailed discussion of patterns is presented in Chapter 11 
  
2  Patterns are applicable to many software engineering activities. Analysis, design, and testing 
patterns are discussed in Chapters 11, 13, 15, 16, and 20. Patterns and “antipatterns” for project 
management activities are discussed in Part 4 of this book. pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   35pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   3513/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM