CHAPTER 27  
SECURITY ENGINEERING 587with this information once it is received in digital form. In ideal circumstances, users can directly control how their data should be handled and shared, but this 
requires the creation of user-prescribed data-sharing preferences to the data 

itself as it is captured electronically [Pea11].   
 
27.2.1   
Social Media  
The explosive growth and popularity of online social media networks have made them attractive targets for malicious programmers. Because of the implicit trust 
most users have in a social network environment, it is easy for a hacker to use a 
compromised account to send malware-infected messages to the account hold-
er’s friends. Social networks can be used to lure users to phishing sites 
 1 
 
 with the intention of tricking them into submitting personal data or forwarding cash to a 
friend in need. Another ruse is the use of e-mails that include details stolen from 
a user’s personal data [Sae11]. 
 
  Some social media networks allow users to develop their own applications. 
These applications innocently ask the user to grant access to personal data and 

then use that data in ways that the user never intended. Sometimes an applica-
tion or game is so attractive that even a knowledgeable user will allow this type 

of access so that she can use the application. Social networks often have check-in 

features that allow criminals to target individuals through their movements in real 

life. Despite the concerns over identity theft, spam, and spyware, many computer 

users are not motivated to take the steps needed to protect themselves [Sta10]. 
  
 
 
27.2.2   
Mobile Applications  
 
 
Users of mobile apps have access to almost the same web services that ﬁ xed-location 
wired Internet users have. Wireless Internet users have inherited all the security 

risks associated with desktop commerce, plus many new risks unique to mobile net-
works. The nature of wireless networks requires trust and cooperation between 

nodes that can be exploited by malicious programs to deny services or collect conﬁ -dential information. The platforms and languages developed for mobile devices can 

be hacked, and malicious code can be inserted into the device system software with 

all the privileges of the device owner. This means that security technologies such as 

sign-in, authentication, and encryption can be undermined with relative ease. 
  
 
 
27.2.3   
Cloud Computing  
Cloud computing brings additional conﬁ dentiality and privacy concerns because 
data is entrusted to remote servers that are managed by service providers. 
These cloud service providers have complete access and control over our data. 
They are trusted not to share it with others (either accidentally or deliberately)   
 
 uote:  ”If you reveal your 
secrets to the wind, 
you should not 
blame the wind for 
revealing them to 
the trees.”  Kahlil Gibran 
 What 

threats are encountered 
in mobile 
applications? ?  
1  A  
phishing site 
 disguises itself as a known and trusted website, luring the user to provide per-
sonal information that can lead to the loss of security assets. pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   587pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   58716/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM