684  
CHAPTER 
 
 
KEY CONCEPTS     agile teams. . . . . . 691  
    coordination and 

communication  . . . 692  

    critical practices  . . 699  

    people  . . . . . . . . . 687  

    problem 

decomposition. . . . 694  

    product. . . . . . . . . 693  

    project  . . . . . . . . . 697  

    software scope. . . 694  

    software team  . . . 689  

    stakeholders. . . . . 687  

    team leaders. . . . . 688  

    W 
5 HH principle . . . 698         
  
 
 In the preface to his book on software project management, Meiler Page-Jones [Pag85] makes a statement that can be echoed by many software 
engineering consultants:  
I’ve visited dozens of commercial shops, both good and bad, and I’ve observed scores of [IT] managers, again, both good and bad. Too often, I’ve watched in hor-

ror as these managers futilely struggled through nightmarish projects, squirmed 
under impossible deadlines, or delivered systems that outraged their users and 
went on to devour huge chunks of maintenance time.  
  
What Page-Jones describes are symptoms that result from an array of man-agement and technical problems. However, if a post mortem were to be
 PROJECT MANAGEMENTCONCEPTS 31  
QUICK LOOK   
What is it?   Although many of us 
(in our darker moments) take Dilbert’s 

view of “management,” it remains 

a very necessary activity when 
computer-based systems and products are built. 

Project management involves the planning, mon-
itoring, and control of the people, process, and 

events that occur as software evolves from a pre-
liminary concept to full operational deployment. 
  
 
Who does it?   Everyone “manages” to some 
extent, but the scope of management activities 
varies among people involved in a software 
project. A software engineer manages her 
day-to-day activities, planning, monitoring, 
and controlling technical tasks. Project manag-
ers plan, monitor, and control the work of a 

team of software engineers. Senior managers 
coordinate the interface between the business 

and software professionals.   
 
Why is it important? 
  Building computer soft-ware is a complex undertaking, particularly if 

it involves many people working over a rela-
tively long time. That’s why software projects 

need to be managed.   
 
What are the steps?   Understand the four Ps—people, product, process, and project. People must be organized to perform software work 
effectively. Communication with the customer 

and other stakeholders must occur so that prod-
uct scope and requirements are understood. 
A process that is appropriate for the people 
and the product should be selected. The proj-
ect must be planned by estimating effort and 

calendar time to accomplish work tasks: deﬁ n-
ing work products, establishing quality check-
points, and identifying mechanisms to monitor 
and control work deﬁ ned by the plan. 
  
 
What is the work product? 
  A project plan 
is produced as management activities com-
mence. The plan deﬁ nes the process and 
tasks to be conducted, the people who will 

do the work, and the mechanisms for assess-
ing risks, controlling change, and evaluating 

quality. 
  
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?   You’re never completely sure that the project 
plan is right until you’ve delivered a high-quality 
product on time and within budget. However, 

a project manager does it right when he en-
courages software people to work together as 
an effective team, focusing their attention on 
customer needs and product quality. 
 pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   684pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   68413/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM