CHAPTER 21  
SOFTWARE QUALITY ASSURANCE
 451better understand how errors are introduced and what software engineer-
ing activities are best suited to eliminating them.   
Change management.   Change is one of the most disruptive aspects of 
any software project. If it is not properly managed, change can lead to 
confusion, and confusion almost always leads to poor quality. SQA ensures 

that adequate change management practices (Chapter 29) have been 
instituted.   
Education. 
  Every software organization wants to improve its software 
engineering practices. A key contributor to improvement is education of 
software engineers, their managers, and other stakeholders. The SQA 
organization takes the lead in software process improvement (Chapter 37) 
and is a key proponent and sponsor of educational programs.    
Vendor management. 
  Three categories of software are acquired from 
external software vendors— shrink-wrapped packages 
 (e.g., Microsoft Of-ﬁ ce), a  
tailored shell
 
 [Hor03] that provides a basic skeletal structure that is custom tailored to the needs of a purchaser, and  
contracted software
 
 that is custom designed and constructed from speciﬁ cations provided by the 
customer organization. The job of the SQA organization is to ensure that 
high-quality software results by suggesting speciﬁ c quality practices that 
the vendor should follow (when possible), and incorporating quality man-
dates as part of any contract with an external vendor. 
  
Security management.   With the increase in cyber crime and new govern-
ment regulations regarding privacy, every software organization should 

institute policies that protect data at all levels, establish ﬁ rewall protec-
tion for WebApps, and ensure that software has not been tampered with 

internally. SQA ensures that appropriate process and technology are used 

to achieve software security (Chapter 27).   
Safety. 
  Because software is almost always a pivotal component of 
human-rated systems (e.g., automotive or aircraft applications), the 
impact of hidden defects can be catastrophic. SQA may be responsible 
for assessing the impact of software failure and for initiating those steps 
required to reduce risk.   
Risk management. 
  Although the analysis and mitigation of risk (Chap-
ter 35) is the concern of software engineers, the SQA organization en-
sures that risk management activities are properly conducted and that 
risk-related contingency plans have been established.  In addition to each of these concerns and activities, SQA works to ensure that software support activities (e.g., maintenance, help lines, documentation, and 
manuals) are conducted or produced with quality as a dominant concern.   uote:  “Excellence is the 
unlimited ability to 
improve the quality 
of what you have 
to offer.” 
 Rick Petin 
pre22126_ch21_448-465.indd   451pre22126_ch21_448-465.indd   45113/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM