638 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTCCA may be composed of one person—the project manager—or a number of people (e.g., representatives from software, hardware, database engineering, 
support, marketing). The role of the CCA is to take a global view, that is, to as-

sess the impact of change beyond the SCI in question. How will the change affect 
hardware? How will the change affect performance? How will the change modify 
customers’ perception of the product? How will the change affect product quality 
and reliability? These and many other questions are addressed by the CCA.   
 
SCM Issues    
 
SCM Issues   
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce 
as the  SafeHome 
 software project begins.   
The players:  Doug Miller (manager of the  
SafeHome 
 software engineering team) and Vinod Raman, Jamie 
Lazar, and other members of the product software engi-

neering team.   
The conversation:    
Doug:  I know it’s early, but we’ve got to talk about 
change management.   
Vinod (laughing):  Hardly. Marketing called this 
morning with a few “second thoughts.” Nothing major, 

but it’s just the beginning. 
  
Jamie:  We’ve been pretty informal about change 
management on past projects.   
Doug:  I know, but this is bigger and more visible, and 
  
Vinod (nodding):  We got killed by uncontrolled 

  
Doug (frowning):  A nightmare that I’d prefer not to 
relive.   
Jamie:  So what do we do? 
  
Doug:  As I see it, three things. First we have to 
develop—or borrow—a change control process.   
Jamie:  You mean how people request changes? 
  
Vinod:  Yeah, but also how we evaluate the change, 
decide when to do it (if that’s what we decide), and 

how we keep records of what’s affected by the change. 
  
Doug:  Second, we’ve got to get a really good SCM 
tool for change and version control.   
Jamie:  We can build a database for all of our work 
products.   
Vinod:  They’re called SCIs in this context, and most 
good tools provide some support for that. 
  
Doug:  That’s a good star
  
Jamie:  
  
Doug (smiling):  Third—we’ve all got to commit to 
follow the change management process and use the 
tools—no matter what, okay?   SAFEHOME  
 
 
 
 
 
29.3.4   
Impact Management  
A web of software work product interdependencies must be considered every time a change is made.  Impact management 
 encompasses the work required to 
properly understand these interdependencies and control their effects on other 
SCIs (and the people who are responsible for them).  Impact management is accomplished with three actions [Sou08]. First, an  im-pact network 
 identiﬁ
 es the members of a software team (and other stakeholders) 
who might effect or be affected by changes that are made to the software. A clear 
deﬁ nition of the software architecture (Chapter 13) assists greatly in the creation 
of an impact network. Next,  forward impact management
 
 assesses the 
  impact pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   638pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   63813/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM