554 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
25.4.5   
Compatibility Tests 
 
Different computers, display devices, operating systems, browsers, and net-work connection speeds can have a signiﬁ cant inﬂ
 uence on WebApp operation. 
Each computing conﬁ guration can result in differences in client-side processing 
speeds, display resolution, and connection speeds. Operating system vagaries 
may cause WebApp processing issues. Different browsers sometimes produce 

slightly different results, regardless of the degree of HTML standardization 
within the WebApp. Required plug-ins may or may not be readily available for a 

particular conﬁ guration.  
Compatibility testing 
 strives to uncover these problems 
before the WebApp goes online. 
 The ﬁ rst step in compatibility testing is to deﬁ
 ne a set of “commonly encoun-
tered” client-side computing conﬁ gurations and their variants. In essence, a 
tree structure is created, identifying each computing platform, typical display 
devices, the operating systems supported on the platform, the browsers avail-
able, likely Internet connection speeds, and similar information. Next, a series of 
compatibility validation tests are derived, often adapted from existing interface 
tests, navigation tests, performance tests, and security tests. The intent of these 
tests is to uncover errors or execution problems that can be traced to conﬁ gura-
tion differences.   
 
Web User Interface Testing Tools 
  
 Objective: 
 The objective of Web user 
interface testing tools is to determine usability 
or accessibility problems present in a Web page or 

website.   Mechanics: 
 Two types of tools are listed here. Some 
tools prompt you to enter the URL of a Web page and 

print a list of suggestions on how to correct any failures 
to conform to a set of heuristics. Some tools capture 

the user actions and prompt users for feedback while 
working on the pages of a website.   
Representative Tools:  
 10 
 
 
   
 
http://www.usabilla.com/ 
 
— Usabilla 
 is an online tool that allows developers to track user actions and 
gather opinions during active use of a Web page. 
  
 
http://www.google.com/analytics/ 
 
— Google Analytics 
 is an online tool that provides a comprehensive set of website data tracking and 
analysis tools that can be used to assess site usability. 
  
 
http://valet.webthing.com/access/url.html  
— Web Valet
 
 provides an online service for checking 
Web pages for accessibility issues. 
  
 
http://wave.webaim.org/ 
 
— Wave
 
 provides an online service that marks up Web pages to show 

accessibility issues.   
 
http://www.sidar.org/hera/index.php.en 
 
— Hera 
 provides an online service that uses the Web 
Content Accessibility Guidelines to check Web pages 

for accessibility issues.   
INFO  
 
10  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   554pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   55413/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM