CHAPTER 5  
AGILE DEVELOPMENT 79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scrum emphasizes the use of a set of software process patterns [Noy02] that have proven effective for projects with tight timelines, changing requirements, 
and business criticality. Each of these process patterns deﬁ
 nes a set of develop-
ment activities:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Backlog 
—a prioritized list of project requirements or features that provide business value for the customer. Items can be added to the backlog at any time 

(this is how changes are introduced). The product manager assesses the back-
log and updates priorities as required.    
 
 
 
 
Sprints 
—consist of work units that are required to achieve a requirement deﬁ ned in the backlog that must be ﬁ
 t into a predeﬁ
 ned time-box 
 10 
 
 (typically 
sprint. Hence, the sprint allows team members to work in a short-term, but 
 stable environment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scrum meetings 
—are short (typically 15-minute) meetings held daily by the Scrum team. Three key questions are asked and answered by all team mem-
bers [Noy02]:   
 
 • 
 
  What did you do since the last team meeting?    
 • 
 
  What obstacles are you encountering?    
 • 
 
  What do you plan to accomplish by the next team meeting?  
 
   
 
 
 
 
A team leader, called a  
Scrum master,
 
 leads the meeting and assesses the re-sponses from each person. The Scrum meeting helps the team to uncover poten-
tial problems as early as possible. Also, these daily meetings lead to “knowledge 
socialization” [Bee99] and thereby promote a self-organizing team structure.    
 
 
 
 
 
Demos 
—deliver the software increment to the customer so that functionality that has been implemented can be demonstrated and evaluated by the cus-
tomer. It is important to note that the demo may not contain all planned func-

tionality, but rather those functions that can be delivered within the time-box 

that was established.    
Beedle and his colleagues [Bee99] present a comprehensive discussion of these patterns in which they state: “Scrum assumes up-front the existence of 
.” The Scrum process patterns enable a software team to work success-

fully in a world where the elimination of uncertainty is impossible.   
 
5.5.2 Dynamic Systems Development Method 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Dynamic Systems Development Method 
 ( 
 
DSDM  
) [Sta97] is an agile software development approach that “provides a framework for building and maintain-
ing systems which meet tight time constraints through the use of incremental  WebRef 
 Useful resources for 
DSDM can be found at 
  www.dsdm.org  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10  A  
time-box 
 is a project management term (see Part 4 of this book) that indicates a period of 
time that has been allocated to accomplish some task.    Scrum incorporates a 
set of process patterns 

that emphasize project 
priorities, compart-

mentalized work units, 
communication, and 
frequent customer 
feedback. pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   79pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   7913/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM