186 PART TWO  
MODELING 
producers
 
 (sources) and  
consumers 
 (sinks) of data,  
data managers 
,  view 
 or 
  
observer classes 
, and  helper classes 
.   
It is also important to note what classes or objects are not. In general, a class should never have an “imperative procedural name” [Cas89]. For example, if 
the developers of software for a medical imaging system deﬁ ned an object with 
the name  InvertImage 
 or even  
ImageInversion, 
 they would be making a subtle 
mistake. The  Image 
 obtained from the software could, of course, be a class (it 
is a thing that is part of the information domain). Inversion of the image is an 
 operation that is applied to the object. It is likely that inversion would be deﬁ ned 
as an operation for the object  Image 
, but it would not be deﬁ
 ned as a separate 
class to connote “image inversion.” As Cashman [Cas89] states, “[T]he intent of 
object-orientation is to encapsulate, but still keep separate, data and operations 
on the data.”  To illustrate how analysis classes might be deﬁ
 ned during the early stages of 
modeling, consider a grammatical parse (nouns are underlined, verbs italicized) 
for a processing narrative  2 
 
 for the  SafeHome 
 security function.  
 
 
The  SafeHome security function   enables 
 the  
homeowner  
to  conﬁ gure
 
 the  
security system  when it is  
installed, monitors 
 all  
sensors   connected 
 to the security system, and 
 interacts 
 with the homeowner through the  Internet , a  PC  or a  control panel .  During  installation , the SafeHome PC is used to  program
 
 and  
conﬁ gure
 
 the  
sys-tem . Each sensor is assigned a  number  and  
type , a  master password  is programmed 
for  arming 
 and  
disarming 
 the system, and  
telephone number(s)  are  
input 
 for  
dialing 
 when a  sensor event  occurs.  When a sensor event is  recognized
 
, the software  invokes 
 an  
audible alarm   attached to the system. After a  delay time  that is  
speciﬁ ed
 
 by the homeowner during system 
conﬁ guration activities, the software dials a telephone number of a  
monitoring ser-
vice ,  provides
 
  information  about the  
location ,  reporting
 
 the nature of the event that 
has been detected. The telephone number will be  redialed
 
 every 20 seconds until 
 telephone connection  is  obtained. 
  The homeowner  receives
 
  security information  via a control panel, the PC, or a 
browser, collectively called an  
interface . The interface  displays 
  prompting messages  and  system status information  on the control panel, the PC, or the browser window. 
  
 
 
    The grammatical parse 
is not foolproof, but it 
can provide you with 
an excellent jump start 

if you’re struggling to 

deﬁ ne data objects and 

the transforms that 

operate on them.   
2  A processing narrative is similar to the use case in style but somewhat different in purpose. 
The processing narrative provides an overall description of the function to be developed. It 
is not a scenario written from one actor’s point of view. It is important to note, however, that 

a grammatical parse can also be used for every use case developed as part of requirements 
gathering (elicitation). pre22126_ch10_184-201.indd   186pre22126_ch10_184-201.indd   18613/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM