698 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
incentives to keep turnover of personnel to an absolute minimum, the team should emphasize quality in every task it performs, and senior man-
agement should do everything possible to stay out of the team’s way.
  
7 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 3.
   
Track progress.
 
 For a software project, progress is tracked as work prod-ucts (e.g., models, source code, sets of test cases) are produced and ap-
proved (using technical reviews) as part of a quality assurance activity. 

In addition, software process and project measures (Chapter 32) can be 
collected and used to assess progress against averages developed for the 
software development organization.   
 
 
 4.
   
Make smart decisions. 
 In essence, the decisions of the project manager and the software team should be to “keep it simple.” Whenever possible, 
decide to use commercial off-the-shelf software or existing software com-
ponents or patterns, decide to avoid custom interfaces when standard 
approaches are available, decide to identify and then avoid obvious risks, 
and decide to allocate more time than you think is needed to complex or 
risky tasks (you’ll need every minute).   
 
 
 5.
   
Conduct a postmortem analysis. 
 Establish a consistent mechanism for ex-tracting lessons learned for each project. Evaluate the planned and actual 
schedules, collect and analyze software project metrics, get feedback from 
team members and customers, and record ﬁ ndings in written form. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 31.6  
THE W 5 
HH PRINCIPLE  
 
In an excellent paper on software process and projects, Barry Boehm [Boe96] states: “[Y]ou need an organizing principle that scales down to provide simple 
[project] plans for simple projects.” Boehm suggests an approach that addresses 
project objectives, milestones and schedules, responsibilities, management and 
technical approaches, and required resources. He calls it the  W 5 
HH Principle, 
 after a series of questions that lead to a deﬁ nition of key project characteristics 
and the resultant project plan:  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is the system being developed? 
 All stakeholders should assess the valid-ity of business reasons for the software work. Does the business purpose justify 
the expenditure of people, time, and money?    
 
 
 
 
 
What will be done? 
 The task set required for the project is deﬁ ned. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
When will it be done? 
 The team establishes a project schedule by identifying when project tasks are to be conducted and when milestones are to be reached.   How do 
we deﬁ ne 
key project 
characteristics? ?  
 
 
 
 
7  The implication of this statement is that bureaucracy is reduced to a minimum, extraneous 
meetings are eliminated, and dogmatic adherence to process and project rules is deempha-
sized. The team should be self-organizing and autonomous. pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   698pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   69813/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM