CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 339random fashion. 
 In every case, it should enable the user to understand where 
he is and provide the user with functionality that can undo mistakes and retrace 
poorly chosen navigation paths.   
 
 
Focus.    
The interface (and the content it presents) should stay focused on the user 
task(s) at hand. 
 This concept is particularly important for mobile apps which can 
become very cluttered in the designer attempts to do too much.   
 
Human Interface Objects.    
A vast library of reusable human interface objects has 
been developed for both Web and mobileApps. Use them.
 
 Any interface object that 
can be “seen, heard, touched or otherwise perceived” [Tog01] by an end user can 

be acquired from any one of a number of object libraries.   
 
Latency Reduction.    
Rather than making the user wait for some internal opera-tion to complete (e.g., downloading a complex graphical image), the application 
should use multitasking in a way that lets the user proceed with work as if the 

operation has been completed. 
 In addition to reducing latency, delays must be 
acknowledged so that the user understands what is happening. This includes 
(1) providing audio feedback when a selection does not result in an immediate 
action by the application, (2) displaying an animated clock or progress bar to in-
dicate that processing is under way, and (3) providing some entertainment (e.g., 

an animation or text presentation) while lengthy processing occurs.   
 
Learnability.    
An application interface should be designed to minimize learning time and, once learned, to minimize relearning required when the app is revisited.
 
 In general the interface should emphasize a simple, intuitive design that orga-
nizes content and functionality into categories that are obvious to the user. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Metaphors.    
An interface that uses an interaction metaphor is easier to learn and easier to use, as long as the metaphor is appropriate for the application and 

the user.
 
 A metaphor should call on images and concepts from the user’s experi-
ence, but it does not need to be an exact reproduction of a real-world experience.   
 
Readability.    
All information presented through the interface should be readable 
by young and old. 
 The interface designer should emphasize readable type styles, 
user-controllable font sizes, and color background choices that enhance contrast. 
  
 
Track State.    
When appropriate, the state of the user interaction should be 
tracked and stored so that a user can logoff and return later to pick up where she 

left off. 
 In general, cookies can be designed to store state information. However, 
cookies are a controversial technology, and other design solutions may be more 

palatable for some users.   
 
Visible Navigation.    
A well-designed interface provides “the illusion that users are 
in the same place, with the work brought to them”
 
 [Tog01]. When this approach is 
used, navigation is not a user concern. Rather, the user retrieves content object 

and selects functions that are displayed and executed through the interface.    Metaphors are an 
excellent idea because 
they mirror real-world 

experience. Just be 
sure that the metaphor 
you choose is well 
known to end users.  Quote:  “The best journey 
is the one with 
the fewest steps. 
Shorten the 
distance between 
the user and their 
goal.”  Author unknown 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   339pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   33913/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM