544 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTwill emerge. A more disciplined approach recognizes that planning establishes a road map for all work that follows. It’s worth the effort. In their book on WebApp 

testing, Splaine and Jaskiel [Spl01] state:  
Except for the simplest of websites, it quickly becomes apparent that some sort of 
test planning is needed. All too often, the initial number of bugs found from ad hoc 

testing is large enough that not all of them are ﬁ xed the ﬁ
 rst time they’re detected. 
This puts an additional burden on people who test websites and applications. Not 

only must they conjure up imaginative new tests, but they must also remember how 

previous tests were executed in order to reliably re-test the website/application, 

and ensure that known bugs have been removed and that no new bugs have been 

introduced. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The questions you should ask are: How do we “conjure up imaginative new tests,” and what should those tests focus on? The answers to these questions are 
contained within a test plan.  A WebApp test plan identiﬁ
 es (1) the task set 
 2 
 
 to be applied as testing 
commences, (2) the work products to be produced as each testing task is ex-
ecuted, and (3) the manner in which the results of testing are evaluated, re-
corded, and reused when regression testing is conducted. In some cases, the 

test plan is integrated with the project plan. In others, the test plan is a sep-
arate document. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 25.2  
THE TESTING PROCESS—AN OVERVIEW    
You begin the WebApp testing process with tests that exercise content and inter-
face functionality that are immediately visible to end users. As testing proceeds, 
aspects of the design architecture and navigation are exercised. Finally, the 

focus shifts to tests that examine technological capabilities that are not always 
apparent to end users—WebApp infrastructure and installation/implementation 

issues.   
Figure 25.1  juxtaposes the WebApp testing process with the design pyra-
mid for WebApps (Chapter 17). Note that as the testing ﬂ
 ow proceeds from 
left to right and top to bottom, user-visible elements of the WebApp design 

(top elements of the pyramid) are tested ﬁ rst, followed by infrastructure design 
elements. 
 
    The test plan identiﬁ es 
the testing task set, 
the work products to 
be developed, and the 
way in which results 
are to be evaluated, 
recorded, and reused.   uote:  “In general, the 
software testing 
techniques that 
are applied to 
other applications 
are the same as 
those applied 
to Web-based 


The difference 
between the two 
types of testing is 
that the technology 
variables in the 
Web environment 

multiply.” 
 Hung Nguyen 
  
2  Task sets are discussed in Chapter 3. A related term– 
workﬂ ow
 
">–is also used to describe a series of tasks required to accomplish a software engineering activity. 
pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   544pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   54413/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM