CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 153 
 
Developing a High-Level Use Case Diagram  
 
Developing a High-Level Use Case Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  A meeting room, continu-
ing the requirements-gathering meeting 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; 
Vinod Raman, software team member; Ed Robbins, soft-
ware team member; Doug Miller, software engineering 

manager; three members of marketing; a product engi-
neering representative; and a facilitator. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:   We’ve spent a fair amount of time talking 
about  SafeHome 
 home security functionality. During the 
break I sketched a use case diagram to summarize the im-
portant scenarios that are part of this function. Take a look. 
   
 
(All attendees look at  Figure 8.2 .)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  I’m just beginning to learn UML notation. 
 14 
 
 So the home security function is represented by the big box 
with the ovals inside it? And the ovals represent use 
cases that we’ve written in text?  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  Yep. And the stick ﬁ
 gures represent 
 actors—the people or things that interact with the labeled square to represent an actor that’s not a per-

   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Is that legal in UML? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  Legality isn’t the issue. The point is to com-
municate information. I view the use of a humanlike stick 

ﬁ gure for representing a device to be misleading. So I’ve 
adapted things a bit. I don’t think it creates a problem. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  Okay, so we have use case narratives for each 
of the ovals. Do we need to develop the more detailed 
template-based narratives I’ve read about?    
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  Probably, but that can wait until we’ve 
considered other  SafeHome 
 functions.    
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person:  Wait, I’ve been looking at 
this diagram and all of a sudden I realize we missed 
something.   
Facilitator:  Oh really. Tell me what we’ve missed. 
   
 
 (The meeting continues.)   
SAFEHOME HomeownerSystem administratorArms/disarms
systemResponds to alarm event
Accessessystemvia Internet
Encountersan errorconditionReconfiguressensors andrelated system featuresSensors  
FIGURE 8.2 
UML use case diagram for 
 SafeHome  home security 
function  
  
 
 
 
 
 
14  A brief UML tutorial is presented in Appendix 1 for those who are unfamiliar with the notation. 
pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   153pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   15313/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM