CHAPTER 9  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: SCENARIO-BASED METHODS 175 
As further conversations with the stakeholder (who plays the role of a home-owner) progress, the requirements-gathering team develops use cases for each 
of the functions noted. In general, use cases are written ﬁ rst in an informal narra-
tive fashion. If more formality is required, the same use case is rewritten using a 
structured format similar to the one proposed in Chapter 8 and reproduced later 
in this section as a sidebar. 
 To illustrate, consider the function  
access camera surveillance via the  Internet—display camera views 
 ( 
ACS-DCV 
). The stakeholder who takes on the role of the  homeowner 
 actor might write the following narrative: 
 
 
Use case: Access camera surveillance via the Internet—display camera views (ACS-DCV) 
   
Actor: homeowner 
  If I’m at a remote location, I can use any PC with appropriate browser software 
to log on to the  SafeHome Products
 
 website. I enter my user ID and two levels of 
passwords and once I’m validated, I have access to all functionality for my in-
stalled  SafeHome 
 system. To access a speciﬁ
 c camera view, I select “surveillance” 
from the major function buttons displayed. I then select “pick a camera” and the 

ﬂ oor plan of the house is displayed. I then select the camera that I’m interested 
in. Alternatively, I can look at thumbnail snapshots from all cameras simultane-

ously by selecting “all cameras” as my viewing choice. Once I choose a camera, 

select “view” and a one-frame-per-second view appears in a viewing window that 

is identiﬁ ed by the camera ID. If I want to switch cameras, I select “pick a camera” 
and the original viewing window disappears and the ﬂ oor plan of the house is 
displayed again. I then select the camera that I’m interested in. A new viewing 

window appears. 
 
  
A variation of a narrative use case presents the interaction as an ordered  sequence of user actions. Each action is represented as a declarative sentence. Revisiting the  ACS-DCV 
 function, you would write: 
 
 
Use case: Access camera surveillance via the Internet—display camera views (ACS-DCV) 
   
Actor: homeowner 
 
   
 
 
 
 1.  
 
The homeowner logs onto the  SafeHome Products
 
 website.    
 
 2.  
 
The homeowner enters his or her user ID.    
 
 3.  
 
The homeowner enters two passwords (each at least eight characters in length).    
 
 4.  
 
The system displays all major function buttons.    
 
 5.  
 
The homeowner selects the “surveillance” from the major function buttons.    
 
 6.  
 
The homeowner selects “pick a camera.”    
 
 7.  
 
The system displays the ﬂ oor plan of the house. 
   
 
 8.  
 
The homeowner selects a camera icon from the ﬂ oor plan. 
   
 
 9.  
 
The homeowner selects the “view” button.   
 uote:   “Use cases 
can be used in 
many [software] 
processes. Our 
favorite is a 
process that is 
iterative and risk 
driven.”  Geri Schneider 
and Jason Winters pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   175pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   17513/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM