182 PART TWO  
MODELINGactivities associated with a particular analysis class fall inside the swimlane for that class. For example, the  Interface 
 class represents the user interface as seen 
by the homeowner. The activity diagram notes two prompts that are the respon-

sibility of the interface—“prompt for reentry” and “prompt for another view.” 
 
 These prompts and the decisions associated with them fall within the  Interface 
 swimlane. However, arrows lead from that swimlane back to the  
Homeowner 
 swimlane, where homeowner actions occur. 
 
  Use cases, along with the activity and swimlane diagrams, are procedurally oriented. They represent the manner in which various actors invoke speciﬁ c 
functions (or other procedural steps) to meet the requirements of the system. 
But a procedural view of requirements represents only a single dimension of a 
system In Chapters 10 and 11, we examine other dimensions of requirements 
modeling.   uote:  “A good model 
guides your 
thinking, a bad one 
warps it.”  Brian Marick 
 9.4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY  
The objective of requirements modeling is to create a variety of representations that describe what the customer requires, establish a basis for the creation of a 
software design, and deﬁ ne a set of requirements that can be validated once the 
software is built. The requirements model bridges the gap between a  system-level description that describes overall system and business functionality and a soft-
ware design that describes the software’s application architecture, user inter-

face, and component-level structure.  Scenario-based models depict software requirements from the user’s point of 
view. The use case—a narrative or template-driven description of an interaction 

between an actor and the software—is the primary modeling element. Derived 
during requirements elicitation, the use case deﬁ nes the keys steps for a speciﬁ
 c 
function or interaction. The degree of use case formality and detail varies, but 
the end result provides necessary input to all other analysis modeling activi-
ties. Scenarios can also be described using an activity diagram—a ﬂ owchart-like 
graphical representation that depicts the processing ﬂ ow within a speciﬁ
 c sce-
nario. Swimlane diagrams illustrate how the processing ﬂ ow is allocated to var-
ious actors or classes.    
 
 
PROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
9.1.  Is it possible to begin coding immediately after a requirements model has been  created? Explain your answer and then argue the counterpoint.    
 
9.2.  An analysis rule of thumb is that the model “should focus on requirements that are  visible within the problem or business domain.” What types of requirements are  not 
 visible 
in these domains? Provide a few examples.  pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   182pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   18213/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM