CHAPTER 35  
RISK MANAGEMENT 787determine when new circumstances cause its probability and impact to change. As a consequence of this activity, it may be necessary to add new risks to the 

table, remove some risks that are no longer relevant, and change the relative 
positions of still others.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Risk Analysis  
 
Risk Analysis  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce 
prior to the initiation of the  SafeHome 
 software project.    
 
 
 
The players:  Doug Miller (manager of the  
SafeHome 
 software engineering team) and Vinod Raman, Jamie 
Lazar, and other members of the product software engi-

neering team.    
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
Doug:  I’d like to spend some time brainstorming risks 
for the  SafeHome 
 project.    
 
 
 
Jamie:  As in what can go wrong? 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  Yep. Here are a few categories where things 
can go wrong.    
 
 
[He shows everyone the categories noted in the in-
troduction to Section 35.3.]    
 
 
 
Vinod:  
   
 
 
 
Doug:  No here’s what I thought we’d do. Everyone 
   
 
[Ten minutes pass, everyone is writing.] 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Okay, stop. 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  But I’m not done! 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  That’s okay. We’ll revisit the list again. Now, for 
each item on your list, assign a percent likelihood that the risk will occur. Then, assign an impact to the project 
on a scale of 1 (minor) to 5 (catastrophic).    
 
 
 
Vinod:  So if I think that the risk is a coin ﬂ
 ip, I specify 
a 50 percent likelihood, and if I think it’ll have a 
moderate project impact, I specify a 3, right?    
 
 
 
Doug:  Exactly. 
   
 
[Five minutes pass, everyone is writing.] 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Okay, stop. Now we’ll make a group list on the 
whiteboard. I’ll do the writing; we’ll call out one entry 

from your list in round-robin format. 
   
 
[Fifteen minutes pass; the list is created.]   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie (pointing at the board and laughing):  Vinod, that risk (pointing toward an entry on the board) 

is ridiculous. There’s a higher likelihood that we’ll all get 

hit by lightning. We should remove it. 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  No, let’s leave it for now. We consider all risks, 
no matter how weird. Later we’ll winnow the list.    
 
 
 
Jamie:  
earth can we manage them all? 
    
 
 
Doug:  We can’t. That’s why we’ll deﬁ
 ne a cut-off after 
we sort these guys. I’ll do that off-line and we’ll meet 

again tomorrow. For now

in your spare time, think about any risks that we’ve 
missed.  
 
 
  
SAFEHOME  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 35.5  
RISK REFINEMENT  
 
During early stages of project planning, a risk may be stated quite generally. As 
time passes and more is learned about the project and the risk, it may be possi-
ble to reﬁ ne the risk into a set of more detailed risks, each somewhat easier to 
mitigate, monitor, and manage. 
 
 
 
   
One way to do this is to represent the risk in  condition-transition-consequence 
 (CTC) format [Glu94]. That is, the risk is stated in the following form:  
Given that <condition> then there is concern that (possibly) <consequence>.  
  What’s a 
good way to describe a risk? ?pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   787pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   78713/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM