CHAPTER 36  
MAINTENANCE AND REENGINEERING 801by importance, by need for change, or in any other way that is appropriate for the reengineering activity. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.
   
Process evaluation. 
 The existing process is thoroughly analyzed and mea-sured. Process tasks are identiﬁ ed; the costs and time consumed by pro-
cess tasks are noted; and quality/performance problems are isolated.   
 
 
 4.
   
Process speciﬁ cation and design.
 
 Based on information obtained during the 
ﬁ rst three BPR activities, use cases (Chapters 8 and 9) are prepared for each 
process that is to be redesigned. Within the context of BPR, use cases identify 

a scenario that delivers some outcome to a customer. With the use case as the 

speciﬁ cation of the process, a new set of tasks are designed for the process. 
  
 
 
 5.
   
Prototyping. 
 A redesigned business process must be prototyped before it is fully integrated into the business. This activity “tests” the process so that 
reﬁ nements can be made. 
  
 
 
 6.
   
Reﬁ nement and instantiation.
 
 Based on feedback from the prototype, the business process is reﬁ ned and then instantiated within a business system. 
   
 
These BPR activities are sometimes used in conjunction with workﬂ ow analysis 
tools. The intent of these tools is to build a model of existing workﬂ ow in an effort 
to better analyze existing processes.  
 
 
  
 
 
 uote:  “As soon as we are 
shown something 
old in a new thing, 
we are paciﬁ ed.” 
 F. W. Nietzsche 
  
Business Process Reengineering (BPR) 
 
 
 
 
 Objective: 
   The objective of BPR tools is to support the analysis and assessment of 
existing business processes and the speciﬁ cation and 
design of new ones.   
 Mechanics: 
  Tools mechanics vary. In general, BPR 
tools allow a business analyst to model existing business 
processes in an effort to assess workﬂ
 ow inefﬁ
 ciencies 
or functional problems. Once existing problems are 
identiﬁ ed, tools allow the analysis to prototype and/or 
simulate revised business processes.   
 
 
Representative Tools:  3 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ExtendSim, 
 developed by ImagineThat (  
www.imaginethatinc.com 
 
), is a simulation tool for modeling existing processes and exploring 
new ones. Extend provides comprehensive what-if 
capability that enables a business analysis to explore 
different process scenarios.    
 
 
 
Metastrom BPM, 
 developed by OpentText 
( http://bps.opentext.com/ 
), provides business process management support for both manual and 
automated processes.    
 
 
 
IceTools,
 
 developed by Blue Ice ( http://www.icetools.com/home.html
 
), is a collection of BPR templates for Microsoft Ofﬁ ce and 
Microsoft Visio.    
 
 
 
OMNIBUS, 
 developed by Kovair (  
http://www.kovair.com/ 
 
), is one of many tools that enable an organization to model process 
workﬂ ow (in this case, IT workﬂ
 ow). 
   
 
 
 
ProcessMaker,
 
 open-source workﬂ ow suite developed 
by Colosa ( http://www.processmaker.com/
 
), incorporates a suite of tools for workﬂ ow modeling, 
simulation, and scheduling.    
 
 
A useful list of BPR tool links can be found at   
www.opfro.org/index.
html?Components/Producers/Tools/

BusinessProcessReengineeringTools.

html~Contents  
.   
 
  
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
3   Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   801pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   80113/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM