CHAPTER 9  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: SCENARIO-BASED METHODS 171DomainanalysisSources ofdomainknowledgeCustomer surveys
Expert advice
Current/future requirementsExisting applicationsTechnical literatureDomainanalysismodelFunctional modelsDomain languagesReuse standardsClass taxonomies  
FIGURE 9.2 
Input and output for domain analysis  
  
 
Domain Analysis  
 
Domain Analysis  
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce, 
after a meeting with marketing.   
The players:  Doug Miller, software engineering 
manager, and Vinod Raman, a member of the software 

engineering team.   
The conversation:    
Doug:  I need you for a special project, Vinod. I’m going 
to pull you out of the requirements-gathering meetings. 
  
Vinod (frowning):  Too bad. That format actually 
s up? 
  
Doug:  
Jamie and Ed will cover for you. Anyway, 
marketing insists that we deliver the Internet capability 

along with the home security function in the ﬁ rst release 
of  SafeHome. 
 W
enough time or people, so we’ve got to solve both prob-
lems—the PC interface and the Web interface—at once. 
  
Vinod (looking confused):  I didn’t know the plan 
 nished with requirements 
gathering.   
Doug (a wan smile):  I know, but the time lines 
are so short that I decided to begin strategizing with 

, we’ll revisit any 

tentative plan once we have the info from all of the 
 requirements-gathering meetings.   
Vinod:  Okay, what’s up? What do you want me to do? 
  
Doug:  Do you know what “domain analysis” is? 
  
Vinod:  Sort of. You look for similar patterns in Apps 
that do the same kinds of things as the App you’re 
building. If possible, you then steal the patterns and 

reuse them in your work.   
Doug:  Not sure I like the word  
steal, 
 but basically 
you have it right. What I’d like you to do is to begin re-
searching existing user interfaces for systems that control 

something like  SafeHome 
. I want you to propose a set 
of patterns and analysis classes that can be common to 

both the PC-based interface that’ll sit in the house and the 

browser-based interface that is accessible via the Internet. 
  
Vinod:  We can save time by making them the 
t we just do that? 
  
Doug:  s nice to have people who think like 
you do. That’s the whole point—we can save time and 

effort if both interfaces are nearly identical, implemented 

with the same code, blah, blah, that marketing insists on. 
  
Vinod:  So you want, what—classes, analysis patterns, 
design patterns? 
  
Doug:  All of ‘em. Nothing formal at this point. I just 
want to get a head start on our internal analysis and 

design work.    
Vinod:  I’ll go to our class library and see what we’ve 
got. I’ll also use a patterns template I saw in a book I 

was reading a few months back.   
Doug:  Good. Go to work. 
  
SAFEHOME  
 
 
 
9.1.4 Requirements Modeling Approaches 
 
One view of requirements modeling, called  structured analysis,
 
 considers data 
and the processes that transform the data as separate entities. Data objects are 
modeled in a way that deﬁ nes their attributes and relationships. Processes that 
pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   171pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   17113/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM