623 SOFTWARE
 CONFIGURATION
MANAGEMENT   
 
 
 
 
 Change is inevitable when computer software is built and can lead to confusion when you and other members of a software team are work-
ing on a project. Confusion arises when changes are not analyzed be-fore they are made, recorded before they are implemented, reported to those 
with a need to know, or controlled in a manner that will improve quality and 

reduce error. Babich [Bab86] discusses this when he states:
  
confusion is called 
conﬁ guration management. Conﬁ
 guration management is the art of identifying, 
organizing, and controlling modiﬁ cations to the software being built by a pro-
gramming team. The goal is to maximize productivity by minimizing mistakes.  
  
Software conﬁ guration management (SCM) is an umbrella activity that is 
applied throughout the software process. Because change can occur at any 
time, SCM activities are developed to (1) identify change, (2) control change,  
What is it?   When you build com-puter software, change happens. 

And because it happens, you need to 

manage it effectively. Software conﬁ
 g-
uration management (SCM), also called change 

management, is a set of activities designed to 

manage change by identifying the work prod-
ucts that are likely to change, establishing rela-
tionships among them, deﬁ ning mechanisms for 
managing different versions of these work prod-
ucts, controlling the changes imposed, and audit-
ing and reporting on the changes made. 
  
 
Who does it?   Everyone involved in the soft-
ware process is involved with change manage-
ment to some extent, but specialized support 

positions are sometimes created to manage 
the SCM process.   
 
Why is it important? 
  If you don’t control 
change, it controls you. And that’s never good. 

It’s very easy for a stream of uncontrolled 

changes to turn a well-run software project into 

chaos. As a consequence, software quality suf-
fers and delivery is delayed. For that reason, 
change management is an essential part of 
quality management.   
 
What are the steps?   Because many work products are produced when software is built, 
each must be uniquely identiﬁ ed. Once this is 
accomplished, mechanisms for version and 
change control can be established. To ensure 

that quality is maintained as changes are 
made, the process is audited; and to ensure 
that those with a need to know are informed 

about changes, reporting is conducted. 
  
 
What is the work product? 
  A Software Con-ﬁ guration Management Plan deﬁ
 nes the project 
strategy for change management. In addition, 

when formal SCM is invoked, the change con-

trol process produces software change requests, 

reports, and engineering change orders. 
  
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?   When every work product can be accounted 
for, traced, and controlled; when every change 

can be tracked and analyzed; when everyone 

who needs to know about a change has been 
informed—you’ve done it right. 
  
QUICK LOOK  KEY CONCEPTS     baselines  . . . . . . . 626  
    change control. . . . 635  

    conﬁ
 guration 
audit  . . . . . . . . . . 639  

    conﬁ
 guration 
management, 
elements of. . . . . . 626  

    conﬁ
 guration 
objects. . . . . . . . . 642  

    content 

management. . . . . 643  

    identiﬁ
 cation. . . . . 633  
impact 
management. . . . . 638

    repository  . . . . . . 630  

    SCM process. . . . . 632  
  
 
 
CHAPTER29 pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   623pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   62313/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM