100 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
For a GSD team, the challenges associated with coordination, collaboration, and communication can have a profound effect on decision making.  Figure 6.2  il-
lustrates the impact of distance on the challenges that face a GSD team. Distance 
complicates communication, but at the same time, accentuates the need for co-
ordination. Distance also introduces barriers and complexity that can be driven 
by cultural differences. Barriers and complexity attenuate communication (i.e., 
the signal-to-noise ratio decreases). The problems inherent in this dynamic can 
result in a project that becomes unstable.   Although there is no silver bullet that can fully correct the relationships im-plied by  Figure 6.2 , the use of effective CDEs (Section 6.6) can help reduce the impact of distance.   
 
 
 
 
 6.10 S
UMMARY  
A successful software engineer must have technical skills. But in addition, he must take responsibility for his commitments, be aware of the needs of his peers, 
be honest in his assessment of the product and the project, be resilient under 
pressure, treat his peers fairly, and exhibit attention to detail. 
 The psychology of software engineering includes individual cognition and mo-tivation, the group dynamics of a software team, and the organization behavior 
of the company. In order to improve communication and collaboration, members 

of a software team can take on boundary-spanning roles.  A successful (“jelled”) software team is more productive and motivated than average. To be effective, a software team must have a sense of purpose, a sense of 

involvement, a sense of trust, and a sense of improvement. In addition the team DistanceIntroducesComplicatesAccentuates
the need for
Attenuate
Communication
EnhancesImproves
Collaboration
CoordinationReducesBarriers and complexity
  
FIGURE 6.2 
Factors  affecting a 
GSD team 
(adapted from 

[Cas06])   pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   100pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   10013/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM