616 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTof data. The data invariant that holds for the symbol table just discussed has two components: (1) that the table will contain no more than  MaxIds 
 names and 
that there will be no duplicate names in the table. In the case of the sym-

bol table program, this means that no matter when the symbol table is exam-
ined during execution of the system, it will always contain no more than  MaxIds 
 names and will contain no duplicates.  Another important concept is that of a  state. 
 Many formal languages use the 
notion of states as they were discussed in Chapter 11; that is, a system can be in 
one of several states, each representing an externally observable mode of behav-
ior. However, a different deﬁ
 nition for the term  
state 
 is used in some speciﬁ
 cation 
languages. In these languages the state of a system is represented by the sys-
tem’s stored data. Using the latter deﬁ
 nition in the example of the symbol table 
program, the state is the symbol table.  The ﬁ nal concept is that of an  
operation. 
 This is an action that takes place 
within a system and reads or writes data. If the symbol table program is con-
cerned with adding and removing names from the symbol table, then it will be 
associated with two operations: an operation to  add 
 a speciﬁ
 ed name to the sym-
bol table and an operation to  remove()
 
 an existing name from the table. 
 11 
 
 If the 
program provides the facility to check whether a speciﬁ c name is contained in 
the table, then there would be an operation that would return some indication of 
whether the name is in the table.   Three types of conditions can be associated with operations: invariants, pre-conditions, and postconditions. An  invariant 
 deﬁ
 nes what is guaranteed not to 
change. For example, the symbol table has an invariant that states that the num-
ber of elements is always less than or equal to  MaxIds. 
 A  
precondition
 
 deﬁ
 nes the 
circumstances in which a particular operation is valid. For example, the precon-
dition for an operation that adds a name to a staff identiﬁ er symbol table is valid 
1.2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.10.WilsonSimpson
Abel
Fernandez
MaxIds = 10 FIGURE 28.7 
A symbol table 
 
11  It should be noted that adding a name cannot occur in the  
full 
 state and deleting a name is 
impossible in the  empty 
 state. pre22126_ch28_601-622.indd   616pre22126_ch28_601-622.indd   61613/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM