CHAPTER 38  
EMERGING TRENDS IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 841 
 
 
You should note that many research and technology trends never reach ma-
turity. In fact, the vast majority of “promising” technologies in the software en-

gineering domain receive widespread interest for a few years and then fall into 
niche usage by a dedicated band of adherents. This is not to say that these tech-
nologies lack merit, but rather to emphasize that the journey through the inno-
vation life cycle is long and hard.  Kurzweil [Kur05] agrees that computing technologies evolve through an “S-curve” that exhibits relatively slow growth during the technology’s formative 

years, rapid acceleration during its growth period, and then a leveling-off period 
as the technology reaches its limits. Today, we a rapidly accelerating through 

the knee of the S-curve for modern computing technologies—at the transition 
between early growth and the explosive growth that is to follow. The implication 

years, we will see dramatic (even mind-boggling) 

changes in computing capability. He suggests that within 20 years, technology 

evolution will accelerate at an increasingly rapid pace, ultimately leading to an 
era of nonbiological intelligence that will merge with and extend human intelli-
gence in ways that are fascinating to contemplate.  And all of this, no matter how it evolves, will require software and systems that make our current efforts look infantile by comparison. By the year 2040, a com-
bination of extreme computation, nanotechnology, massively high bandwidth 

ubiquitous networks, and robotics will lead us into a different world.  1 
 
 Software, 
possibly in forms we cannot yet comprehend, will continue to reside at the core 
of this new world. Software engineering will not go away. 
  
 
 
 
 
 38.2  
PROSPECTS FOR A TRUE ENGINEERING DISCIPLINE  
 
For almost 50 years, many academic researchers and industry professionals have clamored for a true engineering discipline for software. In an important 
follow-on to her classic 1990 paper the subject, Mary Shaw [Sha09] comments on 
this continuing quest:  
Engineering disciplines typically evolve from craft practices of a technology, sufﬁ
 -cient for local or ad hoc use. When the technology becomes economically signiﬁ cant, 
it requires stable production techniques and management control. The resulting 
commercial market is based on experience, rather than a deep understanding of the 
science becomes sufﬁ
 -ciently mature to support purposeful practice and design evolution with predictable 
outcomes.  
  
 
1  Kurzweil [Kur05] presents a reasoned technical argument that predicts a strong artiﬁ
 cial intel-
ligence (that will pass the Turing Test) by 2029 and suggests that the evolution of humans and 

machines will begin to merge by 2045. The vast majority of readers of this book will live to see 
whether this, in fact, comes to pass. pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   841pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   84113/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM