CHAPTER 25  
TESTING WEB APPLICATIONS
 541 
 
 
 
 
 25.1  
TESTING CONCEPTS FOR WEBAPPS  
 
Testing is the process of exercising software with the intent of ﬁ
 nding (and ulti-
mately correcting) errors. This fundamental philosophy, ﬁ
 rst presented in Chap-
ter 22, does not change for WebApps. In fact, because Web-based systems and 

applications reside on a network and interoperate with many different operating 
systems, browsers (or other personal communication devices), hardware plat-
forms, communications protocols, and “backroom” applications, the search for 
errors represents a signiﬁ cant challenge. 
 To understand the objectives of testing within a Web engineering context, you 
should consider the many dimensions of WebApp quality. 
 1 
 
 In the context of this 
discussion, we consider quality dimensions that are particularly relevant in any 
discussion of WebApp testing. We also consider the nature of the errors that are 

encountered as a consequence of testing, and the testing strategy that is applied 
to uncover these errors.   
 
 
25.1.1   
Dimensions of Quality  
Quality is incorporated into a Web application as a consequence of good design. 
It is evaluated by applying a series of technical reviews that assess various ele-
ments of the design model and by applying a testing process that is discussed 
throughout this chapter. Both reviews and testing examine one or more of the 

following quality dimensions [Mil00a]:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•   
Content 
 is evaluated at both a syntactic and semantic level. At the syntac-tic level, spelling, punctuation, and grammar are assessed for text-based 
documents. At a semantic level, correctness (of information presented), 
consistency (across the entire content object and related objects), and lack 
of ambiguity are all assessed.   
 
 
•   
Function 
 is tested to uncover errors that indicate lack of conformance to customer requirements. Each WebApp function is assessed for correct-

ness, instability, and general conformance to appropriate implementation 

standards (e.g., Java or AJAX standards).   
 
 
•   
Structure
 
 is assessed to ensure that it properly delivers WebApp content 
and function, that it is extensible, and that it can be supported as new con-
tent or functionality is added.   
 
 
•   
Usability 
 is tested to ensure that each category of user is supported by the interface and can learn and apply all required navigation syntax and 
semantics.   How do 
we assess quality within 
the context of a 
WebApp and its 

environment? ?  
1  Generic software quality dimensions, equally applicable for WebApps, were discussed in 
Chapter 19.  pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   541pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   54113/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM