CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 145entries on the lists or by creating a use case (Section 8.4) that involves the object or service. For example, the mini-spec for the  SafeHome 
 object  
Control Panel 
 might be:  
The control panel is a wall-mounted unit that is approximately 230 x 130 mm in size. The control panel has wireless connectivity to sensors and a PC. User interaction oc-
curs through a keypad containing 12 keys. A 75 x 75 mm OLED color display provides 
user feedback. Software provides interactive prompts, echo, and similar functions.   
 
The mini-specs are presented to all stakeholders for discussion. Additions, deletions, and further elaboration are made. In some cases, the development of 
mini-specs will uncover new objects, services, constraints, or performance re-
quirements that will be added to the original lists. During all discussions, the 
team may raise an issue that cannot be resolved during the meeting. An  issues list 
 is maintained so that these ideas will be acted on later. 
 
 
 
  
 
Conducting a Requirements-Gathering Meeting  
 
Conducting a Requirements-Gathering Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  A meeting room. The 
ﬁ rst requirements-gathering meeting is 
in progress.    
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; 
Vinod Raman, software team member; Ed Robbins, soft-
ware team member; Doug Miller, software engineering 

manager; three members of marketing; a product engi-
neering representative; and a facilitator. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator (pointing at whiteboard):  So that’s the 
current list of objects and services for the home security 

function.    
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person:  That about covers it from our 
point of view. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  Didn’t someone mention that they wanted all 
 SafeHome 
 functionality to be accessible via the Internet? 
That would include the home security function, no?    
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing person:  Yes, that’
add that functionality and the appropriate objects.    
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  Does that also add some constraints? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  It does, both technical and legal. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Production rep:  Meaning? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  We better make sure an outsider can’t hack 
into the system, disarm it, and rob the place or worse. 

Heavy liability on our part. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Very true. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing:  
stop an outsider from getting in.    
 
 
 
 
 
Ed:  That’
   
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator (interrupting):  I don’t want to debate this 
issue now. Let’s note it as an action item and proceed. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
(Doug, serving as the recorder for the meeting, makes 
an appropriate note.)    
 
 
 
 
 
Facilitator:  I have a feeling there’s still more to con-
sider here.    
 
(The group spends the next 20 minutes reﬁ ning and ex-
panding the details of the home security function.)   
SAFEHOME  
 
Many stakeholder concerns (e.g., accuracy, data accessibility, security) are the 
basis for nonfunctional system requirements (Section 8.2). As stakeholders enun-
ciate these concerns, software engineers must consider them within the context pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   145pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14513/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM