782 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
 
 
 10.
  Is the number of people on the project team adequate to do the job?   
 
 
 11.
  Do all customer/user constituencies agree on the importance of the proj-ect and on the requirements for the system/product to be built?    
If any one of these questions is answered negatively, mitigation, monitoring, 
and management steps should be instituted without fail. The degree to which the 
project is at risk is directly proportional to the number of negative responses to 
these questions.   
 
 
35.3.2   
Risk Components and Drivers  
 
The U.S. Air Force [AFC88] has published a pamphlet that contains excellent guidelines for software risk identiﬁ cation and abatement. The Air Force ap-
proach requires that the project manager identify the risk drivers that affect soft-
ware risk components—performance, cost, support, and schedule. In the context 
of this discussion, the risk components are deﬁ ned in the following manner:
 
 
 
 
•   
Performance risk 
—The degree of uncertainty that the product will meet its requirements and be ﬁ t for its intended use. 
  
 
 
•   
Cost risk 
—The degree of uncertainty that the project budget will be maintained.   
 
 
•   
Support risk 
—The degree of uncertainty that the resultant software will be easy to correct, adapt, and enhance.   
 
 
•   
Schedule risk 
—The degree of uncertainty that the project schedule will be maintained and that the product will be delivered on time.  
 
  The impact of each risk driver on the risk component is divided into one of four impact categories—negligible, marginal, critical, or catastrophic. Referring 
to   
Figure 35.1  
 [Boe89], a characterization of the potential consequences of errors 
(rows labeled 1) or a failure to achieve a desired outcome (rows labeled 2) are 
described. The impact category is chosen based on the characterization that best 
ﬁ ts the description in the table. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 35.4  
RISK PROJECTION  
 
 
Risk projection
 
, also called  risk estimation, 
 attempts to rate each risk in two 
ways—(1) the likelihood or probability that the risk is real and will occur and (2) 
the consequences of the problems associated with the risk, should it occur. You 

work along with other managers and technical staff to perform four risk projec-
tion steps:   
 
 
 1.
  Establish a scale that reﬂ ects the perceived likelihood of a risk. 
  
 
 
 2.
  Delineate the consequences of the risk.   
 
 
 uote:  “Risk management 
is project 
management for 
adults.”  Tim Lister 
pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   782pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   78213/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM