332 PART TWO  
MODELINGshare information before an input can be provided? How will support be pro-vided to users of the system? These and many related questions should be an-
swered before the interface design commences.   
 
 
 
 15.4 I
NTERFACE
 DESIGN STEPS    
Once interface analysis has been completed, all tasks (or objects and actions) required by the end user have been identiﬁ ed in detail and the interface design 
activity commences. Interface design, like all software engineering design, is an 
iterative process. Each user interface design step occurs a number of times, elab-
orating and reﬁ ning information developed in the preceding step. 
 Although many different user interface design models (e.g., [Nor86], [Nie00]) have been proposed, all suggest some combination of the following steps: (1) de-
ﬁ ne interface objects and actions (operations), (2) identify events (user actions) 
that will cause the state of the user interface to change, (3) depict the repre-
sentation of each state, and (4) indicate how the user interprets each state from 
information provided through the interface.   
15.4.1 Applying Interface Design Steps 
 
The deﬁ nition of interface objects and the actions that are applied to them is an 
important step in interface design. To accomplish this, user scenarios are parsed in 

much the same way as described in Chapter 9. That is, a use case is written. Nouns 

(objects) and verbs (actions) are isolated to create a list of objects and actions. 
 Once the objects and actions have been deﬁ ned and elaborated iteratively, they 
are categorized by type. Target, source, and application objects are identiﬁ
 ed. A 
 source object
 
 (e.g., a report icon) is dragged and dropped onto a  
target object
 
 (e.g., 
a printer icon). The implication of this action is to create a hard-copy report. An 
 application object 
 represents application-speciﬁ
 c data that are not directly ma-
nipulated as part of screen interaction. For example, a mailing list is used to store 
names for a mailing. The list itself might be sorted, merged, or purged (menu-
based actions), but it is not dragged and dropped via user interaction.  When you are satisﬁ ed that all important objects and actions have been deﬁ
 ned 
(for one design iteration), screen layout is performed. Like other interface design 
activities, screen layout is an interactive process in which graphical design and 
placement of icons, deﬁ nition of descriptive screen text, speciﬁ
 cation and titling 
for windows, and deﬁ nition of major and minor menu items are conducted. If a 
real-world metaphor is appropriate for the application, it is speciﬁ ed at this time, 
and the layout is organized in a manner that complements the metaphor. 
 To provide a brief illustration of the design steps noted previously, consider a 
user scenario for the  SafeHome 
 system (discussed in earlier chapters). A prelim-
inary use case (written by the homeowner) for the interface follows:  
 
Preliminary use case: 
 I want to gain access to my  
SafeHome 
 system from any re-
mote location via the Internet. Using browser software operating on my notebook   uote:  “Interactive design 
[is] a seamless 
blend of graphic 
arts, technology, 

and psychology.” 
 Brad Wieners 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   332pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   33213/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM