26 CHAPTER 2  
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 
 
 
 
 
 2.5 H
OW IT ALL STARTS
  
 
Every software project is precipitated by some business need—the need to cor-
rect a defect in an existing application; the need to adapt a “legacy system” to a 
changing business environment; the need to extend the functions and features of 
an existing application; or the need to create a new product, service, or system.  At the beginning of a software project, the business need is often expressed informally as part of a simple conversation. The conversation presented in the 
sidebar is typical.  
 
 
 
  
 
9  The  
SafeHome 
 project will be used throughout this book to illustrate the inner workings of 
a project team as it builds a software product. The company, the project, and the people are 

ﬁ ctitious, but the situations and problems are real. 
 
 
 
How a Project Starts 
  
 
 
How a Project Starts 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Meeting room at CPI 
Corporation, a (ﬁ ctional) company that 
makes consumer products for home and commercial use. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Mal Golden, senior manager, product 
development; Lisa Perez, marketing manager; Lee 
Warren, engineering manager; Joe Camalleri, execu-

tive vice president, business development    
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Joe:  Okay, Lee, what’s this I hear about your folks de-
veloping a what? A generic universal wireless box?    
 
 
 
 
 
Lee:  It’
digital camera, just about anything. Using the 802.11n 
wireless protocol. It allows us to access the device’s 

output without wires. We think it’ll lead to a whole new 

generation of products.    
 
 
 
 
 
Joe:  You agree, Mal? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Mal:  I do. In fact, with sales as ﬂ
 at as they’ve been 
this year, we need something new. Lisa and I have been 

doing a little market research, and we think we’ve got a 
line of products that could be big.    
 
 
 
 
 
Joe:  How 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Mal   (avoiding a direct commitment): 
 Tell him 
about our idea, Lisa.    
 
 
 
 
 
Lisa:  It’s a whole new generation of what we call 
“home management products.” We call ‘em 
 
SafeHome.  They use the new wireless interface, provide homeown-

ers or small-businesspeople with a system that’s con-

trolled by their PC—home security, home surveillance, 

appliance and device control—you know, turn down the 

home air conditioner while you’re driving home, that 
sort of thing. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Lee (jumping in):  Engineering’s done a technical 
feasibility study of this idea, Joe. It’s doable at low man-

ufacturing cost. Most hardware is off the shelf. Software 
is an issue, but it’s nothing that we can’t do. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Joe:  Interesting. Now, I asked about the bottom line. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Mal:  PCs and tablets have penetrated over 70 percent 
of all households in the USA. If we could price this thing 
right, it could be a killer app. Nobody else has our 
s proprietary. We’ll have a 2-year 
jump on the competition. Revenue? Maybe as much as 
$30 to $40 million in the second year. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Joe (smiling):  Let’s take this to the next level. I’m 
interested.  
 
  
SAFEHOME 
 9  
  
 
With the exception of a passing reference, software was hardly mentioned as 
part of the conversation. And yet, software will make or break the  SafeHome 
 prod-
uct line. The engineering effort will succeed only if  SafeHome 
 software succeeds. 
pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   26pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   2613/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM