408 PART TWO  
MODELING 
The most important architectural design decision is often whether to build a thin or fat client. The model-view-controller (MVC) architecture (Chapter 17) is 
commonly used in MobileApps.. Because the MobileApp architecture may have 
a strong inﬂ uence on navigation, the decisions made during this design action 
will inﬂ uence work conducted during navigation design. The architectural de-
sign must take device resources in to account (storage, processor speed, and 
network connectivity). The design should include provisions for discoverable 
services and movable devices.  Usability testing and deployment testing take place during each prototype de-velopment cycle. Code reviews that focus on security issues should be included 
as part of the implementation activities. These code reviews should be based on 
the appropriate security objectives and threats identiﬁ ed in the system design 
activities. Security testing is a routine part of system testing (Chapter 22).   
 
 
 
 
 18.7 S
UMMARY  
The quality of a MobileApp—deﬁ ned in terms of functionality, reliability, usabil-
ity, efﬁ
 ciency, security, maintainability, scalability, and portability—is introduced 
during design. A good MobileApp should be based on the following design goals: 
simplicity, ubiquity, personalization, ﬂ
 exibility, and localization. 
 Interface design describes the structure and organization of the user inter-
face and includes a representation of screen layout, a deﬁ nition of the modes 
of interaction, and a description of navigation mechanisms. In addition, the in-
terface for a good MobileApp will promote the brand signature and focus on its 
targeted device platform(s). A set of core user stories is used to trim unnecessary 
features from the app to manage its resources requirements. Context-aware de-
vices make use of discoverable services to help personalize the user experience.  Content design is critically important and takes the screen and other limita-tions of mobile devices into account. Aesthetic design, also called graphic de-
sign, describes the “look and feel” of the MobileApp and includes color schemes; 
graphic layout; the use of graphics; and related aesthetic decisions. Aesthetic 
design must also take device limitations into account.  Architecture design identiﬁ es the overall hypermedia structure for the Mo-
bileApp and encompasses both content architecture and MobileApp architec-
ture. It is critical to determine how much of the MobileApp functionality will 
reside on the mobile device and how much will be provided by Web or cloud 

services.  Navigation design represents the navigational ﬂ ow between content objects 
and for all MobileApp functions. Navigation syntax is deﬁ ned by the widgets 
available on the targeted mobile device(s) and the semantics are often deter-

mined by the mobile platform. Content chunking must take intermittent service 
interruptions into account and user demands for fast performance. pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   408pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   40816/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM