688 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
Every software project is populated by people who fall within this taxonomy. 
 2 
 
 To 
be effective, the project team must be organized in a way that maximizes each 
person’s skills and abilities. And that’s the job of the team leader. 
  
 
 
 
31.2.2   
Team Leaders 
 
Project management is a people-intensive activity, and for this reason, compe-
tent practitioners often make poor team leaders. They simply don’t have the 
right mix of people skills. And yet, as Edgemon states: “Unfortunately and all too 
frequently it seems, individuals just fall into a project manager role and become 
accidental project managers” [Edg95].   
 
 
 
 
In an excellent book of technical leadership, Jerry Weinberg [Wei86] suggests 
an MOI model of leadership:   
Motivation.  
   
The ability to encourage (by “push or pull”) technical people to produce to their best ability. 
  
Organization.  
   
The ability to mold existing processes (or invent new ones) that will enable the initial concept to be translated into a ﬁ nal product. 
  
Ideas or innovation. 
 
   
The ability to encourage people to create and feel creative even when they must work within bounds established for a partic-
ular software product or application.  Weinberg suggests that successful project leaders apply a problem-solving man-
agement style. That is, a software project manager should concentrate on under-

standing the problem to be solved, managing the ﬂ ow of ideas, and at the same 
time, letting everyone on the team know (by words and, far more important, by 
actions) that quality counts and that it will not be compromised.   Another view [Edg95] of the characteristics that deﬁ ne an effective project 
manager emphasizes four key traits:   
Problem solving.   An effective software project manager can diagnose the technical and organizational issues that are most relevant, system-
atically structure a solution or properly motivate other practitioners to 
develop the solution, apply lessons learned from past projects to new sit-
uations, and remain ﬂ exible enough to change direction if initial attempts 
at problem solution are fruitless.   
Managerial identity.   A good project manager must take charge of the project. She must have the conﬁ dence to assume control when necessary 
and the assurance to allow good technical people to follow their instincts.   
Achievement. 
  A competent manager must reward initiative and ac-
complishment to optimize the productivity of a project team. She must  What do 
we look for when choosing 
someone to lead a 
software project? ?  
2  When Web or mobile apps are developed, other nontechnical people may be involved in con-
tent creation.   
 uote:  “In simplest terms, 
a leader is one who 
knows where he 
wants to go, and 
gets up, and goes.”  John Erskine 
pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   688pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   68813/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM