388 PART TWO  
MODELINGconstruct program components that are identical in form to software compo-nents for traditional software.  The design methods discussed in Chapter 14 apply to WebApp components 
with little, if any, modiﬁ
 cation. The implementation environment, programming 
languages, and design patterns, frameworks, and software may vary somewhat, 
but the overall design approach remains the same.   
 
 
 
 
 17.10 S
UMMARY  
The quality of a WebApp—deﬁ
 ned in terms of usability, functionality, reliability, 
efﬁ ciency, maintainability, security, scalability, and time-to-market—is intro-
duced during design. To achieve these quality attributes, a good WebApp design 

should exhibit the following characteristics: simplicity, consistency, identity, ro-

bustness, navigability, and visual appeal. WebApp design activity focuses on six 

different elements of the design.  Interface design describes  
 the structure and organization of the user inter-
face and includes a representation of screen layout, a deﬁ nition of the modes 
of interaction, and a description of navigation mechanisms. A set of interface 
design principles and an interface design workﬂ ow guide you when layout and 
interface control mechanisms are designed.  Aesthetic design, also called graphic design, describes the “look and feel” of the WebApp and includes color schemes; geometric layout; text size, font, and 

placement; the use of graphics; and related aesthetic decisions. A set of graphic 
design guidelines provides the basis for a design approach.  Content design deﬁ nes the layout, structure, and outline for all content that is 
presented as part of the WebApp and establishes the relationships between con-

tent objects. Content design begins with the representation of content objects, 
their associations, and relationships. A set of browsing primitives establishes the 
basis for navigation design.  Architecture design identiﬁ es the overall hypermedia structure for the 
WebApp and encompasses both content architecture and WebApp architecture. 

Architectural styles for content include linear, grid, hierarchical, and network 

structures. WebApp architecture describes an infrastructure that enables a Web-

based system or application to achieve its business objectives.  Navigation design represents the navigational ﬂ ow between content objects 
and for all WebApp functions. Navigation semantics are deﬁ
 ned by describing 
a set of navigation semantic units. Each unit is composed of ways of navigations 
and navigational links and nodes. Navigation syntax depicts the mechanisms 
used for effecting the navigation described as part of the semantics.  Component design develops the detailed processing logic required to im-plement functional components that implement a complete WebApp function. 
pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   388pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   38813/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM