CHAPTER 31  
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS 685conducted for every project, it is very likely that a consistent theme would be encountered: project management was weak.  In this chapter and Chapters 32 through 37, we’ll present the key concepts that lead to effective software project management. This chapter considers basic 
software project management concepts and principles. Chapter 32 presents 
process and project metrics, the basis for effective management decision mak-
ing. The techniques that are used to estimate cost are discussed in Chapter 33. 
Chapter 34 will help you to deﬁ ne a realistic project schedule. The management 
activities that lead to effective risk monitoring, mitigation, and management are 
presented in Chapter 35. Chapter 36 considers maintenance and reengineering 
and discusses the management issues that you’ll encounter when you must deal 
with legacy systems. Finally, Chapter 37 discussed techniques for studying and 

improving your team’s software engineering processes. 
  
 
 31.1  
THE MANAGEMENT SPECTRUM  
 
Effective software project management focuses on the four Ps: people, product, process, and project. The order is not arbitrary. The manager who forgets that 

software engineering work is an intensely human endeavor will never have suc-
cess in project management. A manager who fails to encourage comprehensive 
stakeholder communication early in the evolution of a product risks building an 
elegant solution for the wrong problem. The manager who pays little attention to 
the process runs the risk of inserting competent technical methods and tools into 
a vacuum. The manager who embarks without a solid project plan jeopardizes 
the success of the project.   
 
31.1.1   
The People  
The cultivation of motivated, highly skilled software people has been discussed since the 1960s. In fact, the “people factor” is so important that the Software 
Engineering Institute has developed a  People Capability Maturity Model 
 (People-CMM), in recognition of the fact that “every organization needs to con-
tinually improve its ability to attract, develop, motivate, organize, and retain the 
workforce needed to accomplish its strategic business objectives” [Cur01].  The people capability maturity model deﬁ nes the following key practice areas 
for software people: stafﬁ ng, communication and coordination, work environ-
ment, performance management, training, compensation, competency analysis 
and development, career development, workgroup development, and team/
culture development, and others. Organizations that achieve high levels of 
People-CMM maturity have a higher likelihood of implementing effective soft-
ware project management practices.  The People-CMM is a companion to the  Software Capability Maturity Model–
Integration 
 (Chapter 37) that guides organizations in the creation of a mature 
pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   685pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   68513/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM