476 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTimprecision may be magniﬁ ed to unacceptable levels; global data structures can 
present problems. Sadly, the list goes on and on. 
 Integration testing is a systematic technique for constructing the software ar-
chitecture while at the same time conducting tests to uncover errors associated 
with interfacing. The objective is to take unit-tested components and build a pro-
gram structure that has been dictated by design.  There is often a tendency to attempt nonincremental integration; that is, to construct the program using a “big bang” approach. All components are com-
bined in advance and the entire program is tested as a whole. Chaos usually 
results! Errors are encountered, but correction is difﬁ cult because isolation of 
causes is complicated by the vast expanse of the entire program.  Incremental integration is the antithesis of the big bang approach. The pro-gram is constructed and tested in small increments, where errors are easier to 
isolate and correct; interfaces are more likely to be tested completely; and a sys-
tematic test approach may be applied. In the paragraphs that follow, a number of 

different incremental integration strategies are discussed.   
 
 
 
 
 
Top-Down Integration.   
 
Top-down integration testing
 
 is an incremental ap-
proach to construction of the software architecture. Modules are integrated by 
moving downward through the control hierarchy, beginning with the main con-

trol module (main program). Modules subordinate (and ultimately subordinate) 
to the main control module are incorporated into the structure in either a depth-
ﬁ rst or breadth-ﬁ
 rst manner. 
 Referring to  Figure 22.5 ,  depth-ﬁ rst integration
 
 integrates all components on a 
major control path of the program structure. Selection of a major path is some-
what arbitrary and depends on application-speciﬁ c characteristics. For example, 
selecting the left-hand path, components M1, M2 , M5 would be integrated ﬁ rst. 
Next, M8 or (if necessary for proper functioning of M2) M6 would be integrated. 
Then, the central and right-hand control paths are built.  Breadth-ﬁ
 rst integration
 
 incorporates all components directly subordinate at each level, moving across 
the structure horizontally. From the ﬁ
 gure, components M2, M3, and M4 would 
be integrated ﬁ rst. The next control level, M5, M6, and so on, follows. The integra-
tion process is performed in a series of ﬁ ve steps: 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
1.  The main control module is used as a test driver and stubs are substituted for all components directly subordinate to the main control module.   
 
 
 2.
  Depending on the integration approach selected (i.e., depth or breadth ﬁ rst), subordinate stubs are replaced one at a time with actual 
components.   
 
 
 3.
  Tests are conducted as each component is integrated. 
  
 
 
 4.
  On completion of each set of tests, another stub is replaced with the real component.     When you develop 
a project schedule, 
you’ll have to consider 
the manner in which 
integration will occur 
so that components 
will be available when 
needed.  What are 

the steps for top-down 
integration? ?pre22126_ch22_466-495.indd   476pre22126_ch22_466-495.indd   47613/12/13   6:14 PM13/12/13   6:14 PM