371  
 
 
 
 
 
 In his authoritative book on Web design, Jakob Nielsen [Nie00] states: 
“There are essentially two basic approaches to design: the artistic ideal of 
expressing yourself and the engineering ideal of solving a problem for a customer.” During the ﬁ
 rst decade of Web development, the artistic idea was 
the approach that many developers chose. Design occurred in an ad hoc man-
ner and was usually conducted as HTML was generated. Design evolved out of 
an artistic vision that evolved as WebApp construction occurred. 
  Even today, many Web developers use WebApps as poster children for 
“limited design.” They argue that WebApp immediacy and volatility mitigate 

against formal design; that design evolves as an application is built (coded), 
and that relatively little time should be spent on creating a detailed design 
model. This argument has merit, but only for relatively simple WebApps. When 

content and function are complex; when the size of the WebApp encompasses
 WEBAPP DESIGN  
 
 
 
CHAPTER17  
 
What is it?   Design for WebApps 
encompasses technical and nontech-
nical activities that include: establish-
ing the look and feel of the WebApp, 
creating the aesthetic layout of the user inter-

face, deﬁ ning the overall architectural structure, 
developing the content and functionality that 

reside within the architecture, and planning the 

navigation that occurs within the WebApp. 
  
 
Who does it?   Web engineers, graphic 
designers, content developers, and other 
stakeholders all participate in the creation of 

a WebApp design model. 
  
 
Why is it important? 
  Design allows you to 
create a model that can be assessed for qual-
ity and improved before content and code are 

generated, tests are conducted, and end users 

become involved in large numbers. Design is 

the place where WebApp quality is established. 
  
 
What are the steps?   WebApp design en-
compasses six major steps that are driven 
by information obtained during requirements 

modeling. Content design uses the content 
model (developed during analysis) as the basis for establishing the design of content objects. Aesthetic design (also called graphic design) 
establishes the look and feel that the end user 
sees. Architectural design focuses on the over-

all hypermedia structure of all content objects 

and functions. Interface design establishes the 

layout and interaction mechanisms that deﬁ ne 
the user interface. Navigation design deﬁ
 nes 
how the end user navigates through the hy-
permedia structure, and component design 

represents the detailed internal structure of 

functional elements of the WebApp. 
  
 
What is the work product? 
  A design model 
that encompasses content, aesthetics, architec-
ture, interface, navigation, and component-level 

design issues is the primary work product that 

is produced during WebApp design. 
  
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?   Each element of the design model is reviewed in an effort to uncover errors, incon-

sistencies, or omissions. In addition, alterna-

tive solutions are considered, and the degree 
to which the current design model will lead to 
an effective implementation is also assessed.   
QUICK LOOK  KEY CONCEPTS     aesthetic design. . . . 377
      architecture design. . . . 381
      component-level design. . . . 387
      content architecture  381      content design. . . . 379
      content objects. . . . 379
      design goals. . . . . 374
      design pyramid. . . 375
  pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   371pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   37113/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM