274 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
13.6.6  Architectural Design for Mobile Apps 
 
Mobile apps  9 
 
 are typically structured using multilayered architectures, including 
a user interface layer, a business layer, and a data layer. With mobile apps you 

have the choice of building a thin Web-based client or a rich client. With a thin 

client, only the user interface resides on the mobile device, whereas the business 
and data layers reside on a server. With a rich client all three layers may reside 

on the mobile device itself.   
Mobile devices differ from one another in terms of their physical characteris-tics (e.g., screen sizes, input devices), software (e.g., operating systems, language 
support), and hardware (e.g., memory, network connections). Each of these attri-

butes shapes the direction of the architectural alternatives that can be selected. 
Meier and his colleagues [Mei09] suggest a number of considerations that can 
inﬂ uence the architectural design of a mobile app: (1) the type of web client (thin 
or rich) to be built, (2) the categories of devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets) that 
are supported, (3) the degree of connectivity (occasional or persistent) required, 
(4) the bandwidth required, (5) the constraints imposed by the mobile platform, 
(6) the degree to which reuse and maintainability are important, and (7) device 
resource constraints (e.g., battery life, memory size, processor speed).   
 
 
 
 13.7 A
SSESSING ALTERNATIVE
 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNS  
 
In their book on the evaluation of software architectures, Clements and his  colleagues [Cle03] state: 
 
To put it bluntly, an architecture is a bet, a wager on the success of a system. Wouldn’t 
it be nice to know in advance if you’ve placed your bet on a winner, as opposed to wait-

ing until the system is mostly completed before knowing whether it will meet its re-
quirements or not? If you’re buying a system or paying for its development, wouldn’t 
you like to have some assurance that it’s started off down the right path? If you’re the 

architect yourself, wouldn’t you like to have a good way to validate your intuitions 
and experience, so that you can sleep at night knowing that the trust placed in your 
design is well founded?   
 
Indeed, answers to these questions would have value. Design results in a num-ber of architectural alternatives that are each assessed to determine which is 
the most appropriate for the problem to be solved. In the sections that follow, we 

present two different approaches for the assessment of alternative  architectural designs. The ﬁ rst method uses an iterative method to assess design trade-offs. 
The second approach applies a pseudo-quantitative technique for assessing 
 design quality. 
 
 
9  Mobile app design is discussed in more detail in  
Chapter 18 . pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   274pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   27413/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM