12 CHAPTER 1  
THE NATURE OF SOFTWARE
 
Software—programs, data, and descriptive information—addresses a wide array of technology and application areas. Legacy software continues to present 
special challenges to those who must maintain it.  The nature of software is changing. Web-based systems and applications have 
evolved from simple collections of information content to sophisticated systems 
that present complex functionality and multimedia content. Although these 
WebApps have unique features and requirements, they are software nonethe-

less. Mobile applications present new challenges as apps migrate to a wide array 
of platforms. Cloud computing will transform the way in which software is deliv-
ered and the environment in which it exists. Product line software offers poten-
tial efﬁ ciencies in the manner in which software is built. 
   
 
 
PROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
1.1.  Provide at least ﬁ ve additional examples of how the law of unintended consequences 
applies to computer software.    
 
1.2.  Provide a number of examples (both positive and negative) that indicate the impact of software on our society. 
   
 
1.3.  Develop your own answers to the ﬁ ve questions asked at the beginning of Section 1.1. 
Discuss them with your fellow students.    
 
1.4.  Many modern applications change frequently—before they are presented to the end user and then after the ﬁ rst version has been put into use. Suggest a few ways to build soft-
ware to stop deterioration due to change.    
 
1.5.  Consider the seven software categories presented in Section 1.1.2. Do you think that the same approach to software engineering can be applied for each? Explain your answer. 
    
 
 
 
FURTHER
 READINGS AND INFORMATION
 SOURCES 
 6   
  
 
Literally thousands of books are written about computer software. The vast majority dis-cuss programming languages or software applications, but a few discuss software itself. 
Pressman and Herron ( Software Shock,
 
 Dorset House, 1991) presented an early discussion 
(directed at the layperson) of software and the way professionals build it. Negroponte’s 

best-selling book ( Being Digital 
, Alfred A. Knopf, 1995) provides a view of computing and its overall impact in the twenty-ﬁ rst century. DeMarco ( 
Why Does Software Cost So Much?
 
 Dorset House, 1995) has produced a collection of amusing and insightful essays on software   
6  The  Further Reading and Information Sources
 
 section presented at the conclusion of each 
chapter presents a brief overview of print sources that can help to expand your understanding 
of the major topics presented in the chapter. We have created a comprehensive website to 

support  Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach
 
 at  
www.mhhe.com/pressman
 
. Among the many topics addressed within the website are chapter-by-chapter software engineering 

resources to Web-based information that can complement the material presented in each 

chapter. An Amazon.com link to every book noted in this section is contained within these 

resources. pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   12pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   1213/12/13   10:00 PM13/12/13   10:00 PM