CHAPTER 31  
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Who is responsible for a function?
 
 The role and responsibility of each member of the software team is deﬁ ned. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Where are they located organizationally?
 
 Not all roles and responsibilities re-side within software practitioners. The customer, users, and other stakeholders 

also have responsibilities.    
 
 
 
 
 
How will the job be done technically and managerially? 
 Once product scope is 
established, a management and technical strategy for the project must be deﬁ ned. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
How much of each resource is needed?
 
 The answer to this question is derived by developing estimates (Chapter 33) based on answers to earlier questions.    
 
 
 
 
Boehm’s W 
5 
HH principle is applicable regardless of the size or complexity of a software project. The questions noted provide you and your team with an excel-
lent planning outline.   
 
 
 
 
 
 31.7  
CRITICAL PRACTICES  
 
The Airlie Council  8 
 
 has developed a list of “critical software practices for performance-
based management.” These practices are “consistently used by, and considered 

critical by, highly successful software projects and organizations whose ‘bottom line’ 

performance is consistently much better than industry averages” [Air99]. 
  Critical practices  9 
 
 include: metric-based project management (Chapter 32), 
empirical cost and schedule estimation (Chapters 33 and 34), earned value track-
ing (Chapter 34), defect tracking against quality targets (Chapters 19 though 21), 
and people aware management (Section 31.2). Each of these critical practices is 
addressed throughout Part 4 of this book.  
 
 
  
 
8  The Airlie Council was comprised of a team of software engineering experts chartered by the 
U.S. Department of Defense to help develop guidelines for best practices in software project 
management and software engineering. For more on best practices, see  http://www.swqual
.com/e_newsletter.html
 
.   
9  Only those critical practices associated with “project integrity” are noted here. 
  
10  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this 
category. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
Software Tools for Project Managers 
 
The tools listed here are generic and apply to a broad range of activities performed by 
project managers. Speciﬁ c project management tools 
(e.g., scheduling tools, estimating tools, risk analysis 
tools) are considered in later chapters.   
Representative Tools:  
 10 
 
  
 
Projectmanagement.com 
 ( http://www.projectmanagement.com
 
) has developed a set of useful  checklists for project managers. 
   
Ittoolkit.com 
 (  
www.ittoolkit.com 
 
) provides “a collection of planning guides, process templates and 
smart worksheets” available on CD-ROM. 
  
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   699pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   69913/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM