CHAPTER 38  
EMERGING TRENDS IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 843represented in   
Figure 38.2  
. Not every software engineering technology makes it all the way through the hype cycle. In some cases, disillusionment is justiﬁ ed and 
the technology is relegated to obscurity. 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 38.4  
IDENTIFYING “SOFT TRENDS”  
 
Each nation with a substantial IT industry has a set of unique characteristics that deﬁ ne the manner in which business is conducted, the organizational dynamics 
that arise within a company, the distinct marketing issues that apply to local cus-

tomers, and the overriding culture that dictates all human interaction. However, 

some trends in each of these areas are universal and have as much to do with 
sociology, anthropology, and group psychology (often referred to as the “soft sci-

ences”) as they do with academic or industrial research.   
Connectivity and collaboration 
 (enabled by high-bandwidth communication) 
has already led to software teams that do not occupy the same physical space 
(telecommuting and part-time employment in a local context). One team collab-
orates with other teams that are separated by time zones, primary language, and 
culture. Software engineering must respond with an overarching process model 
for “distributed teams” that is agile enough to meet the demands of immediacy 
but disciplined enough to coordinate disparate groups.   
Globalization 
 leads to a diverse workforce (in terms of language, culture, 
problem resolution, management philosophy, communication priorities, and 

person-to-person interaction). This, in turn, demands a ﬂ exible organizational 
structure. Different teams (in different countries) must respond to engineer-

ing problems in a way that best accommodates their unique needs, while at the    The “hype cycle” 
presents a realistic 
view of short-term 

technology integration. 
The long-term 

trend, however, is 

exponential.   uote:  “640K ought to 
be enough for 
anybody.” 
 Bill Gates, 
chairman of Microsoft, 1981 VisibilityTechnologytriggerPeak ofinflatedexpectationsTroughofdisillusionmentSlopeofenlightenmentPlateauofproductivity FIGURE 38.2 
The  Gartner Group’s hype 

cycle for 
emerging 

technologies 
[Gar08]pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   843pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   84313/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM