CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 325or design model) on the ﬁ rst pass. Subsequent passes through the process elabo-
rate task detail, design information, and the operational features of the interface. 
  
 
 
 
 15.3 I
NTERFACE
 ANALYSIS
 
 1    
 
 
A key tenet of all software engineering process models is this:  understand the problem before you attempt to design a solution.
 
 In the case of user interface de-sign, understanding the problem means understanding (1) the people (end users) 
who will interact with the system through the interface, (2) the tasks that end 
users must perform to do their work, (3) the content that is presented as part of 
the interface, and (4) the environment in which these tasks will be conducted. In 
the sections that follow, we examine each of these elements of interface analysis 

with the intent of establishing a solid foundation for the design tasks that follow. 
  
15.3.1 User Analysis 
 
The phrase  user interface 
 is probably all the justiﬁ
 cation needed to spend some 
time understanding the user before worrying about technical matters. Earlier we 
noted that each user has a mental image of the software that may be different 
from the mental image developed by other users. In addition, the user’s mental 

image may be vastly different from the software engineer’s design model. The 

only way that you can get the mental image and the design model to converge 
is to work to understand the users themselves as well as how these people will 
use the system. Information from a broad array of sources (user interviews, sales 
input, marketing input, support input) can be used to accomplish this.  
 
 
   
The following set of questions (adapted from [Hac98]) will help you to better understand the users of a system:  
 
 
•  Are users trained professionals, technicians, clerical, or manufacturing workers?   
 
 
•  What level of formal education does the average user have?   
 
 
•  Are the users capable of learning from written materials or have they  expressed a desire for classroom training?   
 
 
•  Are users expert typists or keyboard phobic?   
 
 
•  What is the age range of the user community?   
 
 
•  Will the users be represented predominately by one gender? 
  
 
 
•  How are users compensated for the work they perform?   
 
 
•  Do users work normal ofﬁ ce hours or do they work until the job is done? 
    How do we learn 
about the demograph-
ics and characteristics 
of end users?   
1  It is reasonable to argue that this section should be placed in Chapter 8, 9, 10, or 11, since 
 requirements analysis issues are discussed there. It has been positioned here because inter-
face analysis and design are intimately connected to one another, and the boundary between 

the two is often fuzzy. 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   325pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32513/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM