88 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
 
 
 
 6.1 C
HARACTERISTICS OF A SOFTWARE
 ENGINEER  
  So you want to be a software engineer? Obviously, you have to master the tech-
nical stuff, learn and apply the skills required to understand the problem, design 
an effective solution, build the software, and test it in an effort to develop the 
highest quality possible. You have to manage change, communicate with stake-

holders, and use appropriate tools in the appropriate situations. All of these 
things are discussed at length later in this book.  But there are other things that are equally important—the human aspects that will make you an effective software engineer. Erdogmus [Erd09] identiﬁ
 es 
seven   
traits  
 that are present when an individual software engineer exhibits 
“superprofessional” behavior. 
 An effective software engineer has a sense of  individual responsibility
 
. This implies a drive to deliver on her promises to peers, stakeholders, and her man-
agement. It implies that she will do what needs to be done, when it needs to be 
done in an overriding effort to achieve a successful outcome.  An effective software engineer has an  acute awareness
 
 of the needs of other 
members of his team, of the stakeholders that have requested a software solu-
tion to an existing problem, and the managers who have overall control over the 
project that will achieve that solution. He is able to observe the environment in 
which people work and adapt his behavior to both the environment and the peo-
ple themselves.  
 
 
   
An effective software engineer is  brutally honest 
. If she sees a ﬂ awed design, 
she points out the ﬂ aws in a constructive but honest manner. If asked to distort 
facts about schedule, features, performance, or other product or project charac-
teristics she opts to be realistic and truthful.  An effective software engineer exhibits  resilience under pressure.
 
 As we noted 
previously in this book, software engineering is always on the edge of chaos. 
Pressure (and the chaos that can result) comes in many forms—changes in re-
quirements and priorities, demanding stakeholders or peers, an unrealistic or 
overbearing manager. But an effective software engineer is able to manage the 

pressure so that his performance does not suffer. 
 An effective software engineer has a  heightened sense of fairness. 
 She gladly 
shares credit with her colleagues. She tries to avoid conﬂ icts of interest and 
never acts to sabotage the work of others.  An effective software engineer exhibits  attention to detail. 
 This does not imply 
an obsession with perfection, but it does suggest that he carefully considers the 

technical decisions he makes on a daily basis against broader criteria (e.g., per-

formance, cost, quality) that have been established for the product and the project. 
 Finally, an effective software engineer is pragmatic. She recognizes that soft-
ware engineering is not a religion in which dogmatic rules must be followed, but 
rather a discipline that can be adapted based on the circumstances at hand.  What are 
the personal characteristics 
of an effective 
software 
engineer? ?  uote:  Most good 

programmers do 
programming 
not because they 
expect to get paid 
or get adulation 
by the public, but 
because it is fun to 
program.  Linus Torvalds 
pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   88pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   8813/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM