44 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
linear process. In addition, there may be a compelling need to provide a limited set of software functionality to users quickly and then reﬁ ne and expand on that 
functionality in later software releases. In such cases, you can choose a process 
model that is designed to produce the software in increments.   
The incremental model combines the elements’ linear and parallel process 
ﬂ ows discussed in Chapter 3. Referring to  
Figure 4.3 , the incremental model 
applies linear sequences in a staggered fashion as calendar time progresses. 

Each linear sequence produces deliverable “increments” of the software 

[McD93]. 
 For example, word-processing software developed using the incremental par-
adigm might deliver basic ﬁ le management, editing, and document production 
functions in the ﬁ rst increment; more sophisticated editing and document pro-
duction capabilities in the second increment; spelling and grammar checking 
in the third increment; and advanced page layout capability in the fourth incre-
ment. It should be noted that the process ﬂ ow for any increment can incorporate 
the prototyping paradigm discussed in the next subsection.  
 
 
 
 
  When an incremental model is used, the ﬁ rst increment is often a  
core prod-
uct. 
 That is, basic requirements are addressed but many supplementary fea-
tures (some known, others unknown) remain undelivered. The core product is 

used by the customer (or undergoes detailed evaluation). As a result of use and/
or evaluation, a plan is developed for the next increment. The plan addresses 

the modiﬁ cation of the core product to better meet the needs of the customer 
and the delivery of additional features and functionality. This process is re-

peated following the delivery of each increment, until the complete product is 

produced. 
   The incremental 
model delivers a 
series of releases, 
called increments, that 
provide progressively 
more functionality for 
the customer as each 
 increment is delivered. 
increment # 1increment # 2delivery of
1st incrementdelivery of
2nd incrementdelivery of 
nth incrementincrement # nProject Calendar Time
Software Functionality and FeaturesCommunicationPlanningModeling (analysis, design)Construction (code, test)Deployment (delivery, feedback)
 
FIGURE 4.3 
The incremen-
tal model   Your customer de-
mands delivery by a 

date that is impossible 
to meet. Suggest deliv-
ering one or more in-
crements by that date 
and the rest of the 
software (additional 
increments) later. 
pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   44pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   4413/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM