450 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTactions” [Sch98c] that are required to ensure high quality in software. The scope of quality assurance responsibility might best be characterized by paraphrasing 
a once-popular automobile commercial: “Quality Is Job #1.” The implication for 
software is that many different constituencies have software quality assurance 
responsibility — software engineers, project managers, customers, salespeople, 
and the individuals who serve within an SQA group.  The SQA group serves as the customer’s in-house representative. That is, the 
people who perform SQA must look at the software from the customer’s point 

of view. Does the software adequately meet the quality factors noted in Chap-

19? Have software engineering practices been conducted according to prees-

tablished standards? Have technical disciplines properly performed their roles 
as part of the SQA activity? The SQA group attempts to answer these and other 
questions to ensure that software quality is maintained.   
 
 
 
 21.2  
ELEMENTS OF SOFTWARE
 QUALITY ASSURANCE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Software quality assurance encompasses a broad range of concerns and activi-ties that focus on the management of software quality. These can be summarized 

in the following manner [Hor03]:   
Standards.   The IEEE, ISO, and other standards organizations have pro-
duced a broad array of software engineering standards and related doc-
uments. Standards may be adopted voluntarily by a software engineering 
organization or imposed by the customer or other stakeholders. The job of 
SQA is to ensure that standards that have been adopted are followed and 
that all work products conform to them.   
Reviews and audits.   Technical reviews are a quality control activity per-
formed by software engineers for software engineers (Chapter 20). Their 

intent is to uncover errors. Audits are a type of review performed by SQA 

personnel with the intent of ensuring that quality guidelines are being 

followed for software engineering work. For example, an audit of the 

review process might be conducted to ensure that reviews are being per-

formed in a manner that will lead to the highest likelihood of uncovering 

errors. 
  
Testing.   Software testing (Chapters 22 through 26) is a quality control 
function that has one primary goal—to ﬁ nd errors. The job of SQA is to 
ensure that testing is properly planned and efﬁ ciently conducted so that it 
has the highest likelihood of achieving its primary goal.   
Error/defect collection and analysis.   The only way to improve is to mea-
sure how you’re doing. SQA collects and analyzes error and defect data to  WebRef 
 An in-depth discussion 
of SQA, including a 
wide array of deﬁ ni-

tions, can be 
obtained at   
http://www.swqual

.com/images/
FoodforThought_
Jan2011.pdf  . 
pre22126_ch21_448-465.indd   450pre22126_ch21_448-465.indd   45013/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM