CHAPTER 13  
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 273a  scheduler 
 infrastructure component that implements polling of each  
sensor 
 object used by the security system. Similar elaboration is performed for each of 
the components represented in  Figure 13.8 .  
 
Architectural Design 
 
 Objective: 
  Architectural design tools model the overall software structure by representing component interface, dependencies and relationships, 

and interactions.   
 
Mechanics: 
  Tool mechanics vary. In most cases, 
architectural design capability is part of the functionality 

provided by automated tools for analysis and design 
modeling.   
 
 
Representative Tools: 
 7 
 
   
 
Adalon, 
 developed by Synthis Corp. (  
www.synthis
.com 
 
), is a specialized design tool for the design and construction of speciﬁ c Web-based component 
architectures.   
ObjectiF,
 
 developed by microTOOL GmbH (  
www.microtool.de/objectiF/en/
 
 
), is a UML-based design tool that leads to architectures 
(e.g., Coldfusion, J2EE, Fusebox) amenable to 
component-based software engineering 
( Chapter 14 ).   
Rational Rose, 
 developed by Rational (  
http://www-01.ibm.com/software/rational/ 
 
), ts all 

aspects of architectural design.   
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.6.5  Architectural Design for Web Apps 
 
WebApps 
 8 
 
 are client-server applications typically structured using multilayered 
architectures, including a user interface or view layer, a controller layer which 

directs the ﬂ ow of information to and from the client browser based on a set of 
business rules, and a content or model layer that may also contain the business 
rules for the WebApp. 
  
The user interface for a WebApp is designed around the characteristics of the 
web browser running on the client machine (usually a personal computer or mobile 

device). Data layers reside on a server. Business rules can be implemented using a 

server-based scripting language such as PHP or a client-based scripting language 

such as javascript. An architect will examine requirements for security and usabil-
ity to determine which features should be allocated to the client or server. 
 The architectural design of a WebApp is also inﬂ
 uenced by the structure (lin-
ear or nonlinear) of the content that needs to be accessed by the client. The ar-

chitectural components (Web pages) of a WebApp are designed to allow control 

to be passed to other system components, allowing very ﬂ exible navigation struc-
tures. The physical location of media and other content resources also inﬂ uences 
the architectural choices made by software engineers.   
7  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
8  WebApp design is discussed in more detail in  
Chapter 17 . pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   273pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   27313/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM