862 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
too much time is spent transferring too little information content, and all too often, important information “falls into the cracks.”  If the software engineering community is to deal effectively with the commu-nication dilemma, the road ahead for software engineers must include radical 
changes in the way individuals and teams communicate with one another. In 

Chapter 38, we discussed collaborative environments that may provide dramatic 
improvements in the ways teams communicate.  In the ﬁ nal analysis, communication is the transfer of knowledge, and the ac-
quisition (and transfer) of knowledge is changing in profound ways. As search 
engines become increasingly sophisticated, social networking and crowd-sourcing 
morph into a development tools, and Web 2.0 applications provide better synergy, 

the speed and quality of knowledge transfer will grow exponentially. 
 If past history is any indication, it is fair to say that people themselves will not change. However, the ways in which they communicate, the environment in 

which they work, the manner in which they acquire knowledge, the methods and 
tools that they use, the discipline that they apply, and therefore, the overall cul-

ture for software development will change in signiﬁ cant and even profound ways. 
 
 
Conclusion?  
 
Conclusion?  
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce. 
   
 
 
 
The players:  Doug Miller (manager of the  
SafeHome 
 software engineering group) and Vinod Raman 
(a member of the product software engineering team).    
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
Doug:  I’m really pleased that we got it done without 
too much drama.    
 
 
 
Vinod (sighing and leaning back in his chair):  Yeah, but the project grew, didn’t it. 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  And you’re surprised? When we started 
 SafeHome 
, marketing thought a desktop app would do    
 
 
 
Vinod (smiling):  And then, the Web and mobility 
took over. 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  But we all learned a lot. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  We did. The tech stuff was interesting, but the 
software engineering stuff is probably what allowed us 
to get it done close to schedule.    
 
 
 
Doug:  Yeah, that and hard work by all of you guys. 
What are you seeing from customer support? How’s 

quality in the ﬁ eld? 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  There are a few issues, but nothing really seri-
ous. We’re on it. In fact, I gotta meet with Jamie on one 

of them in ﬁ ve minutes. 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  
   
 
 
 
Vinod  (on his way out the door):   I know, more 
work, right?    
 
 
 
Doug:  y 
SafeHome II.  
   
 
 
 
Vinod:   SafeHome II? 
 
   
 
 
 
Doug:  Yeah,  
SafeHome II.  
We’ll begin planning next week. 
 
 
  
SAFEHOME  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 39.3  
NEW MODES FOR REPRESENTING INFORMATION
  
 
Over the history of computing, a subtle transition has occurred in the termi-nology that is used to describe software development work performed for the 
business community. Fifty years ago, the term  
data processing
 
 was the operative pre22126_ch39_860-868.indd   862pre22126_ch39_860-868.indd   86213/12/13   6:18 PM13/12/13   6:18 PM