CHAPTER 13  
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 257this type of product may begin to emerge. Without documenting what worked 
and what did not, it is hard for software engineers to decide when to innovate 
and when to use previously created architecture.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 13.2 A
RCHITECTURAL GENRES  
 
Although the underlying principles of architectural design apply to all types of 
 architecture, the architectural  genre
 
 will often dictate the speciﬁ
 c architectural 
approach to the structure that must be built. In the context of architectural design, 

 genre
 
 implies a speciﬁ
 c category within the overall software domain. Within each 
category, you encounter a number of subcategories. For example, within the genre 

of  buildings 
, you would encounter the following general styles: houses, condos, 
apartment buildings, ofﬁ ce buildings, industrial building, warehouses, and so on. 
Within each general style, more speciﬁ
 c styles might apply (Section 13.3). Each style 
would have a structure that can be described using a set of predictable patterns. 
 
 
 
   
In his evolving  Handbook of Software Architecture
 
 [Boo08], Grady Booch suggests 
the following architectural genres for software-based systems that include artiﬁ cial 
intelligence, communications, devices, ﬁ nancial, games, industrial, legal, medical, 
military, operating systems, transportation, and utilities, among many others. 
   A number of different 
architectural styles 
may be applicable to 
a speciﬁ c genre (also 

called an application 
domain).   
Architecture Decision Description Template 
 
Each major architectural decision can be documented for later review by stakeholders who want to understand the architecture description that 
has been proposed. The template presented in this side-
bar is an adapted and abbreviated version of a template 
proposed by Tyree and Ackerman [Tyr05].
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Design issue: 
  Describe the architectural design issues that are to be addressed.    
 
 
 
 
 
Resolution: 
  State the approach you’ve chosen 
to address the design issue. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Category:
 
  Specify the design category that 
the issue and resolution address 
(e.g., data design, content 
structure, component structure, 
integration, presentation).    
 
 
 
 
 
Assumptions: 
  Indicate any assumptions that helped shape the decision.    
 
 
 
 
 
Constraints: 
  Specify any environmental constraints that helped shape 
the decision (e.g., technology 
standards, available patterns, 

project-related issues).   
 
 
 
 
 
 Alternatives: 
  Brieﬂ y describe the architectural 
design alternatives that were 

considered and why they were 
rejected.    
 
 
 
 
 
Argument:
 
  State why you chose the 
resolution over other alternatives. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Implications: 
  Indicate the design consequences of making the 
decision. How will the resolution 
affect other architectural design 
issues? Will the resolution 

   
 
 
 
 
 
Related decisions: 
  What other documented decisions 
are related to this decision? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Related concerns: 
  What other requirements are related to this decision?    
 
 
 
 
 
Work products:
 
  Indicate where this decision will be reﬂ ected in the architecture 
description.    
 
 
 
 
 
Notes: 
  Reference any team notes or other documentation that was 
used to make the decision.  
 
   
INFO pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   257pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   25713/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM