556 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTduring error handling (e.g., incorrect or nonexistent error messages, WebApp 
failure as a consequence of the error, erroneous output driven by erroneous 

input, side effects that are related to component processing).  Each component-level test case speciﬁ es all input values and the expected out-
put to be provided by the component. The actual output produced as a consequence 

of the test is recorded for future reference during support and maintenance. 
  
 
 
 
 25.6  
NAVIGATION
 TESTING  
 
A user travels through a WebApp in much the same way as a visitor walks through 
a store or museum. There are many pathways that can be taken, many stops that 

can be made, many things to learn and look at, activities to initiate, and decisions 

to make. This navigation process is predictable in the sense that every visitor has a 

set of objectives when he arrives. At the same time, the navigation process can be 

unpredictable because the visitor, inﬂ
 uenced by something he sees or learns, may 
choose a path or initiate an action that is not typical for the original objective. The 

job of navigation testing is (1) to ensure that the mechanisms that allow the WebApp 

user to travel through the WebApp are all functional and (2) to validate that each 

navigation semantic unit (NSU) can be achieved by the appropriate user category. 
  
 
25.6.1   
Testing Navigation Syntax 
 
 
The ﬁ rst phase of navigation testing actually begins during interface testing. Nav-
igation mechanisms are tested to ensure that each performs its intended func-
tion. Splaine and Jaskiel [Spl01] suggest that each of the following navigation 
mechanisms should be tested: links and anchors of all types, redirects (when a 
user request a nonexistent URL), bookmarks, frames and frame sets, site maps, 
and the accuracy of internal search facilities.  Some of the tests noted can be performed by automated tools (e.g., link checking), 
while others are designed and executed manually. The intent throughout is to en-

sure that errors in navigation mechanics are found before the WebApp goes online. 
  
 
 
25.6.2   
Testing Navigation Semantics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Chapter 17 a navigation semantic unit (NSU) is deﬁ ned as “a set of information 
and related navigation structures that collaborate in the fulﬁ llment of a subset of 
related user requirements” [Cac02]. Each NSU is deﬁ ned by a set of navigation 
paths (called “ways of navigating”) that connect navigation nodes (e.g., Web pages, 

content objects, or functionality). Taken as a whole, each NSU allows a user to 

achieve speciﬁ c requirements deﬁ
 ned by one or more use cases for a user cate-
gory. Navigation testing exercises each NSU to ensure that these requirements can 

be achieved. You should answer the following questions as each NSU is tested:
  
 
 
•  Is the NSU achieved in its entirety without error?   
 
 
•  Is every navigation node (deﬁ ned for an NSU) reachable within the con-
text of the navigation paths deﬁ ned for the NSU? 
  
 
 
 uote:  “We’re not lost. 
We’re locationally 

challenged.”  John M. Ford 
 What 

questions must be asked 
and answered 
as each NSU is 
tested? ?pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   556pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   55613/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM