CHAPTER 16  
PATTERN-BASED DESIGN
 359 
 
 
16.2.5  Common Design Mistakes 
 
 
 
  
 
A number of common mistakes occur when pattern-based design is used. In 
some cases, not enough time has been spent to understand the underlying 

problem and its context and forces, and as a consequence, you select a pat-
tern that looks right but is inappropriate for the solution required. Once the 

wrong pattern is selected, you refuse to see your error and force-ﬁ t the pattern. 
In other cases, the problem has forces that are not considered by the pattern 

you’ve chosen, resulting in a poor or erroneous ﬁ t. Sometimes a pattern is ap-
plied too literally and the required adaptations for your problem space are not 

implemented. 
 Can these mistakes be avoided? In most cases the answer is yes. Every good designer looks for a second opinion and welcomes review of her work. The review 
techniques discussed in Chapter 20 can help to ensure that the pattern-based 
design you’ve developed will result in a high-quality solution for the software 
problem to be solved.   
 
 
 
 
 16.3  
ARCHITECTURAL PATTERNS
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a house builder decides to construct a center-hall colonial, there is a single 
architectural style that can be applied. The details of the style (e.g., number of 
ﬁ replaces, façade of the house, placement of doors and windows) can vary con-
siderably, but once the decision on the overall architecture of the house is made, 

the style is imposed on the design.  6 
 
   
Architectural patterns are a bit different. For example, every house (and every architectural style for houses) employs a  Kitchen 
 pattern. The  
Kitchen 
 pattern and patterns it collaborates with address problems associated with the 
storage and preparation of food, the tools required to accomplish these tasks, 
and rules for placement of these tools relative to workﬂ ow in the room. In addi-
tion, the pattern might address problems associated with countertops, lighting, 
wall switches, a central island, ﬂ ooring, and so on. Obviously, there is more than 
a single design for a kitchen, often dictated by the context and system of forces. 
But every design can be conceived within the context of the “solution” suggested 
by the  Kitchen 
 pattern.  Before a representative architectural pattern can be chosen in a particular do-main, it must be assessed for its appropriateness for the application and the overall 

architectural style, as well as the context and system of forces that it speciﬁ es. 
   Don’t force a pattern, 
even if it addresses the 
problem at hand. If 
the context and forces 
are wrong, look for 
another pattern. 
   A software architecture 

may have a number of 
architectural patterns 

that address issues 
such as concurrency, 

persistence, and 
distribution.   
6  This implies that there will be a central foyer and hallway, that rooms will be placed to the left 
and right of the foyer, that the house will have two (or more) stories, that the bedrooms of the 

house will be upstairs, and so on. These “rules” are imposed once the decision is made to use 
the center-hall colonial style. 
pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   359pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   35916/12/13   6:22 PM16/12/13   6:22 PM