318 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
 
 15.1 T
HE GOLDEN RULES  
 
In his book on interface design, Theo Mandel [Man97] coins three  golden rules: 
   
 
 
 1.  Place the user in control.    
 
 2.  Reduce the user’s memory load. 
   
 
 3.  Make the interface consistent.  
 
  These golden rules actually form the basis for a set of user interface design principles that guide this important aspect of software design.   
 
15.1.1 Place the User in Control 
 
During a requirements-gathering session for a major new information system, a key user was asked about the attributes of the window-oriented graphical 
interface.  “What I really would like,” said the user solemnly, “is a system that reads my 
mind. It knows what I want to do before I need to do it and makes it very easy for 
me to get it done. That’s all, just that.” 
 Your ﬁ
 rst reaction might be to shake your head and smile, but pause for a mo-
ment. There was absolutely nothing wrong with the user’s request. She wanted a 

system that reacted to her needs and helped her get things done. She wanted to 
control the computer, not have the computer control her. 
 Most interface constraints and restrictions that are imposed by a designer are intended to simplify the mode of interaction. But for whom?  As a designer, you may be tempted to introduce constraints and limitations 
to simplify the implementation of the interface. The result may be an interface   
 
Why is it important?
   
If software is difﬁ cult to 
use, if it forces you into mistakes, or if it frus-
trates your efforts to accomplish your goals, 

you won’t like it, regardless of the computa-

tional power it exhibits, the content it delivers, 
or the functionality it offers. The interface has 

to be right because it molds a user’s percep-

tion of the software.   
 
What are the steps?   
User interface design 
begins with the identiﬁ cation of user, task, 
and environmental requirements. Once user 

tasks have been identiﬁ ed, user scenarios are 
created and analyzed to deﬁ ne a set of inter-
face objects and actions. These form the basis 

for the creation of screen layout that depicts 

graphical design and placement of icons, 
deﬁ nition of descriptive screen text, speciﬁ
 ca-
tion and titling of windows, and speciﬁ cation 
of major and minor menu items. Tools are 

used to prototype and ultimately implement 

the design model, and the result is evaluated 

for quality. 
  
 
What is the work product?
   
User scenarios are created and screen layouts are generated. 
An interface prototype is developed and mod-

iﬁ ed in an iterative fashion. 
  
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right? 
   
An interface prototype is “test driven” by the 
users, and feedback from the test drive is 
used for the next iterative modiﬁ cation of the 
prototype.   
 uote:  “It’s better to 
design the user 
experience than 
rectify it.”Jon Meads pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   318pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   31813/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM