176 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
10.   
The system displays a viewing window that is identiﬁ ed by the camera ID. 
   
 
11.   
The system displays video output within the viewing window at one frame  
 
  
It is important to note that this sequential presentation does not consider any alternative interactions (the narrative is more free ﬂ owing and did represent a 
few alternatives). Use cases of this type are sometimes referred to as  primary scenarios 
 [Sch98a].  
  
 
 
 
9.2.2 Reﬁ ning a Preliminary Use Case 
 
 
 
  
 
A description of alternative interactions is essential for a complete understand-ing of the function that is being described by a use case. Therefore, each step in 
the primary scenario is evaluated by asking the following questions [Sch98a]:  
 
 
•   
Can the actor take some other action at this point? 
 
  
 
 
•   
Is it possible that the actor will encounter some error condition at this 
point? 
 If so, what might it be?   
 
 
•   
Is it possible that the actor will encounter some other behavior at this point (e.g., behavior that is invoked by some event outside the actor’s control)?
 
 If so, what might it be?  
 
  Answers to these questions result in the creation of a set of  secondary scenar-
ios 
 that are part of the original use case but represent alternative behavior. For 
example, consider steps 6 and 7 in the primary scenario presented earlier:   
 
 
6.  The homeowner selects “pick a camera.”     
 
7.  The system displays the ﬂ oor plan of the house. 
 
 
   
Can the actor take some other action at this point? 
 The answer is yes 
. 
 Re-
ferring to the free-ﬂ owing narrative, the actor may choose to view thumbnail 
snapshots of all cameras simultaneously. Hence, one secondary scenario might 

be “View thumbnail snapshots for all cameras.” 
  
Is it possible that the actor will encounter some error condition at this point?
 
 Any number of error conditions can occur as a computer-based system oper-

ates. In this context, we consider only error conditions that are likely as a di-
rect result of the action described in step 6 or step 7. Again the answer to the 

question is yes. A ﬂ oor plan with camera icons may have never been conﬁ
 g-
ured. Hence, selecting “pick a camera” results in an error condition: “No ﬂ oor 
plan conﬁ gured for this house.” 
 10 
 
 This error condition becomes a secondary 
scenario. 
 How do I 
examine alternative 
courses of action 
when I develop a 
use case? ?  
10  In this case, another actor, the  
system administrator,
 
 would have to conﬁ
 gure the ﬂ
 oor plan, 
install and initialize (e.g., assign an equipment ID) all cameras, and test each camera to be 
certain that it is accessible via the system and through the ﬂ oor plan. 
pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   176pre22126_ch09_166-183.indd   17613/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM