CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 329 
 
3  This example has been adapted from [Hac98]. 
(and roles) are involved. Consider a company that intends to fully automate the process of prescribing and delivering prescription drugs. The entire process  3 
 
 will 
revolve around a Web-based application that is accessible by physicians (or their 

assistants), pharmacists, and patients. Workﬂ
 ow can be represented effectively 
with a UML swimlane diagram (a variation on the activity diagram).  
  We consider only a small part of the work process: the situation that occurs 
when a patient asks for a reﬁ ll.  
Figure 15.2  presents a swimlane diagram that 
indicates the tasks and decisions for each of the three roles noted earlier. This 

information may have been elicited via interview or from use cases written by 
each actor. Regardless, the ﬂ
 ow of events (shown in the ﬁ
 gure) enables you to 
recognize a number of key interface characteristics:   
 
 
 1.  Each user implements different tasks via the interface; therefore, the look and feel of the interface designed for the patient will be different than the 
one deﬁ ned for pharmacists or physicians. 
   
 
 2.  The interface design for pharmacists and physicians must accommodate access to and display of information from secondary information sources 
(e.g., access to inventory for the pharmacist and access to information 
about alternative medications for the physician).    
 
 3.  Many of the activities noted in the swimlane diagram can be further elab-orated using task analysis and/or object elaboration (e.g.,  Fills prescription
 
 could imply a mail-order delivery, a visit to a pharmacy, or a visit to a spe-

cial drug distribution center).  
 
  
 
 
Hierarchical Representation.   
A process of elaboration occurs as you begin to analyze the interface. Once workﬂ ow has been established, a task hierarchy can 
be deﬁ ned for each user type. The hierarchy is derived by a stepwise elaboration 
of each task identiﬁ ed for the user. For example, consider the user task  
requests 
that a prescription be reﬁ
 lled.
 
 The following task hierarchy is developed: 
 
 
Requests that a prescription be reﬁ
 lled
 
  
 
 
•   
Provide identifying information.
 
  
 
 
 
•   
Specify name. 
 
  
 
 
•   
Specify userid. 
 
  
 
 
•   
Specify PIN and password.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
•   
Specify prescription number.
 
 
  
 
 
•   
Specify date reﬁ
 ll is required.
 
 
 
 
  To complete the 
 
 task, three subtasks are deﬁ ned. One of these subtasks,  
provide 
identifying information, 
 is further elaborated in three additional sub-subtasks.  
 uote:  “It is far better 
to adapt the 
technology to the 
user than to force 
the user to adapt 
to the technology.” 
 Larry Marine 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   329pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32913/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM