CHAPTER 2  
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 27The market will accept the product only if the software embedded within it prop-erly meets the customer’s (as yet unstated) needs. We’ll follow the progression of 

 SafeHome 
 software engineering in many of the chapters that follow. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.6 S
UMMARY  
Software engineering encompasses process, methods, and tools that enable complex computer-based systems to be built in a timely manner with quality. The 

software process incorporates ﬁ ve framework activities—communication, plan-
ning, modeling, construction, and deployment—that are applicable to all soft-
ware projects. Software engineering practice is a problem-solving activity that 
follows a set of core principles.  A wide array of software myths continue to lead managers and practitioners astray, even as our collective knowledge of software and the technologies re-

quired to build it grows. As you learn more about software engineering, you’ll 
begin to understand why these myths should be debunked whenever they are 
encountered.   
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
2.1.   
Figure 2.1  places the three software engineering layers on top of a layer entitled “A 
quality focus.” This implies an organizational quality program such as total quality man-
agement. Do a bit of research and develop an outline of the key tenets of a total quality 
management program.    
 
2.2.  Is software engineering applicable when WebApps are built? If so, how might it be mod-
iﬁ ed to accommodate the unique characteristics of WebApps? 
   
 
2.3.  As software becomes more pervasive, risks to the public (due to faulty programs) be-come an increasingly signiﬁ cant concern. Develop a doomsday but realistic scenario in 
which the failure of a computer program could do great harm, either economic or human.    
 
2.4.  Describe a process framework in your own words. When we say that framework activ-ities are applicable to all projects, does this mean that the same work tasks are applied for 
all projects, regardless of size and complexity? Explain.    
 
2.5.  Umbrella activities occur throughout the software process. Do you think they are applied evenly across the process, or are some concentrated in one or more framework 
activities?    
 
2.6.  Add two additional myths to the list presented in Section 2.4. Also state the reality that accompanies the myth.   
 
 
 
  F
URTHER
 READINGS AND INFORMATION
 SOURCES  
 
The current state of the software engineering and the software process can best be de-termined from publications such as  IEEE Software, IEEE Computer,
 
  CrossTalk,
 
 and  
IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering.
 
 Industry periodicals such as  
Application Develop-ment Trends
 
 and  
Cutter IT Journal 
 often contain articles on software engineering topics. 
The discipline is “summarized” every year in the  Proceeding of the International Conference 
pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   27pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   2713/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM