546 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
To accomplish the ﬁ
 rst objective, automated spelling and grammar checkers 
may be used. However, many syntactic errors evade detection by such tools and 

must be discovered by a human reviewer (tester). In fact, a large website might 
enlist the services of a professional copy editor to uncover typographical errors, 
grammatical mistakes, errors in content consistency, errors in graphical repre-

sentations, and cross-referencing errors.   
 
 
 
 
Semantic testing focuses on the information presented within each content object. The reviewer (tester) must answer the following questions:  
 
 
•  Is the information factually accurate?   
 
 
•  Is the information concise and to the point?   
 
 
•  Is the layout of the content object easy for the user to understand?   
 
 
•  Can information embedded within a content object be found easily?   
 
 
•  Have proper references been provided for all information derived from other sources?   
 
 
•  Is the information presented consistent internally and consistent with information presented in other content objects?   
 
 
•  Is the content offensive, misleading, or does it open the door to litigation?   
 
 
•  Does the content infringe on existing copyrights or trademarks?   
 
 
•  Does the content contain internal links that supplement existing content? Are the links correct?   
 
 
•  Does the aesthetic style of the content conﬂ ict with the aesthetic style of 
the interface?  
 
  Obtaining answers to each of these questions for a large WebApp (containing 
hundreds of content objects) can be a daunting task. However, failure to uncover 

semantic errors will shake the user’s faith in the WebApp and can lead to failure 

of the Web-based application. 
 Content objects exist within an architecture that has a specific style 
(Chapter 17). During content testing, the structure and organization of 

the content architecture is tested to ensure that required content is pre-
sented to the end user in the proper order and relationships. For exam-
ple, the   
SafeHomeAssured.com 
 
 WebApp presents a variety of information 
about sensors that are used as part of security and surveillance products. 

Content objects provide descriptive information, technical specifica-
tions, a photographic representation, and related information. Tests of the 

  
SafeHomeAssured.com 
 
 content architecture strive to uncover errors in the 
presentation of this information (e.g., a description of Sensor  X 
 is presented 
with a photo of Sensor  Y 
).  
 
 
  What 
questions should be asked 
and answered to 
uncover semantic 
errors in content? ?pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   546pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   54613/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM