398 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
 
 
18.2.2  User Interface Design 
 
Mobile device users expect that minimal learning time will be required to master a MobileApp. To achieve this, MobileApp designers use consistent icon repre-

sentations and placement across multiple platforms. In addition, designers must 
be sensitive to the user’s expectation of privacy with regard to the display of 

personal information on the screen of the mobile device. Touch and gesture in-

terfaces, along with sophisticated voice input, are maturing rapidly [Shu12] and 
have already become part of the user interface designer’s toolbox. 
  
 
Legal and ethical pressure to provide for access by all persons suggest that 
mobile device interfaces need to account for brand differences, cultural differ-

ences, differences in computing experience, elderly users, and users with dis-
abilities (e.g., visual, aural, mobility). The effects of poor usability may mean that 

users cannot complete their tasks or will not be satisﬁ ed with the results. This 
suggests the importance of user-centered design activities in each of the usabil-

ity areas (user interface, external accessory interface, and service interface). 

In trying to meet stakeholder usability expectations, MobileApp developers 

should attempt to answer these questions to assess the out-of-the-box readiness 

of the device:  
 
 
•  Is the user interface consistent across applications?   
 
 
•  Is the device interoperable with different network services?   
 
 
•  Is the device acceptable in terms of stakeholder values  13 
 
 in the target  market area?  
 
 
  Eisenstein [Eis01] claims that the use of abstract, platform-neutral models 
to describe a user interface greatly facilitates the development of consistent, 

usable multiplatform user interfaces for mobile devices. Called  model based 
design,  this approach uses three different models. A  
platform model 
 describes 
the constraints imposed by each platform to be supported. A  presentation 
model 
 describes the appearance of the user interface. The  
task model 
 is a 
structured representation of the tasks a user needs to perform to meet her task 

12) involves the creation 

of databases that contain the models and has tool support for generating user 

interfaces for multiple devices automatically. Utilizing model-based design 

techniques can also help designers recognize and accommodate the unique 

contexts and context changes that are present in mobile computing. Without 

an abstract description of a user interface, the development of mobile user in-
terfaces can be error-prone and time-consuming. 
   Accessibility is an 
important design 

issue and must be 
considered when 
user-centered design is 
applied.   
13  Brand, ethical preferences, moral preferences, cognitive beliefs. 
 
 uote:  “Mobile apps 
force designers to 
deeply understand 
user needs so as 
to provide just the 
right functions in 
a learnable and 
useable interface.”  Ben 
Schneiderman pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   398pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   39816/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM