CHAPTER 29  
SOFTWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
 643Objects can be identiﬁ ed (assigned ﬁ
 le names) in any manner that is appropriate 
for the organization.  All content has format and structure. Internal ﬁ le formats are dictated by 
the computing environment in which the content is stored. However,  
rendering 
format 
 (often called  
display format 
) is deﬁ ned by the aesthetic style and design 
rules established for the Web or MobileApp.  
Content structure
 
 deﬁ
 nes a content 
architecture; that is, it deﬁ nes the way in which content objects are assembled to 
present meaningful information to an end user. Boiko [Boi04] deﬁ
 nes structure 
as “maps that you lay over a set of content chunks [objects] to organize them and 
make them accessible to the people who need them.”   
 
 
29.4.3   
Content Management  
 
 
Content management 
 is related to conﬁ
 guration management in the sense that 
a content management system (CMS) establishes a process (supported by appro-
priate tools) that acquires existing content (from a broad array of WebApp and/

or MobileApp conﬁ guration objects), structures it in a way that enables it to be 
presented to an end user, and then provides it to the client-side environment for 

display. 
 The most common use of a content management system occurs when a dy-namic application is built. Dynamic Web or MobileApps create pages “on the ﬂ
 y.” 
That is, the user typically queries the app requesting speciﬁ c information. The 
app queries a server-side database, formats the information accordingly, and 

presents it to the user. For example, a music store (e.g., Apple iTunes) provides 

hundreds of thousands of tracks for sale. When a user requests a music track, a 
database is queried and a variety of information about the artist, the CD (e.g., its 
cover image or graphics), the musical content, and sample audio are all down-
loaded and conﬁ gured into a standard content template. The resultant page is 
built on the server side and passed to the client side for examination by the end 
user. A generic representation for WebApps is shown in  
Figure 29.6  
 
.  
 
 
 
  In the most general sense, a CMS “conﬁ gures” content for the end user by 
invoking three integrated subsystems: a collection subsystem, a management 
subsystem and a publishing subsystem [Boi04].   
 
 
The collection subsystem.   
Content is derived from data and information that must be created or acquired by a content developer. The  
collection subsystem 
 encompasses all actions required to create and/or acquire content, and the tech-
nical functions that are necessary to (1) convert content into a form that can be 
represented by a mark-up language (e.g., HTML, XML), and (2) organize content 
into packets that can be displayed effectively on the client side.  Content creation and acquisition (often called  authoring 
) commonly occurs in parallel with other development activities and is often conducted by nontechnical 
content developers. This activity combines elements of creativity and research   
 
 uote:  “Content 
management is 
an antidote to 
today’s information 

frenzy.” 
 Bob Boiko 
   The collection subsys-

tem encompasses all 
actions required to 
create, acquire, and/
or convert content 

into a form that can 

be presented on the 
client side. pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   643pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   64313/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM