594 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 27.5  
SECURITY RISK ANALYSIS
 
 7    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identifying and managing security risks are important project planning tasks (Chapter 31). Security engineering is driven by risks that are identiﬁ ed by the 
software team and other stakeholders. Risks impact project management and 
security assurance activities.   
Threat modeling
 
 is a security analysis method that can be used to identify those 
threats with the highest potential to cause damage to a software-based system. Threat 

modeling is accomplished in the earliest phases of a project using the requirements 

and analysis models. The creation of a threat model involves identifying key com-
ponents of an application, decomposing the application, identifying and categoriz-
ing the component threats, rating and categorizing the threats to each component, 

rating the components based on their risk ranking, and developing risk mitigation 

strategies. Microsoft uses the following steps to create a threat model [Sin08]: 
  
 
 
 
 
 1   
Identify assets 
. List all sensitive information and intellectual property, 
where it is stored, how it is stored, and who has access.   
 
 
 2   
Create an architecture overview.
 
 Write system use cases and build a 
model of the system components.   
 
 
 3   
Decompose the application. 
 The goal is to ensure that all data sent among application components are validated.   
 
 
 4   
Identify threats. 
 Note all threats that might compromise the system assets 
using methods like attack trees or attack patterns, often the process involves 

looking as network, host system conﬁ guration, and application threats. 
  
 
 
 5   
Document the threats. 
 Create a risk information sheet detailing how each threat should be monitored and mitigated.   
 
 
 6   
Rate the threats 
. Most projects have insufﬁ cient resources to address all 
conceivable threats, so threats need to be ranked using their impact and 
likelihood.    
Costly assets should be protected from high probability risks. A quantitative risk-assessment process (Chapter 35) can be used to rank the threats. First, all 
assets to be assessed are identiﬁ ed and the dollar value of losing or recreating an 
asset is determined. For each asset, a list of major threats is created and histor-

ical data are used to determine the likely occurrence of each threat in a typical 
year. The potential loss in dollars per major threat for each asset per year is com-

puted along with the  annual loss expectancy 
 (ALE) (determined by multiplying 
the occurrence and potential loss). Finally, the combined threat of losing an asset 

is computed by adding the ALE values associated with each individual threat.     Threat modeling
  is 
a security analysis 
method that can be 
used to identify those 
threats with the high-
est potential to cause 
damage.  What are 

the steps required to build a 
threat model? ?  
7  A generic discussion of risk analysis for software projects encompassing all types of risks that 
threaten the project and its success is presented in Chapter 35. pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   594pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   59416/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM