CHAPTER 33  
ESTIMATION FOR SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 747within the context of project planning for each software increment. Estimation for agile projects uses a decomposition approach that encompasses the following 
steps:  
 
 
 1.
  Each user scenario (the equivalent of a mini use case created at the very start of a project by end users or other stakeholders) is considered sepa-
rately for estimation purposes.   
 
 
 2.
  The scenario is decomposed into the set of software engineering tasks that will be required to develop it.   
 
 
 3a.
  Each task is estimated separately. Note: Estimation can be based on his-
torical data, an empirical model, or “experience.”   
 
 
 3b.
  Alternatively, the “volume” of the scenario can be estimated in LOC, FP, or 
some other volume-oriented measure (e.g., use case count).   
 
 
 4a.
  Estimates for each task are summed to create an estimate for the scenario.   
 
 
 4b.
  Alternatively, the volume estimate for the scenario is translated into effort 
using historical data.   
 
 
 5.
  The effort estimates for all scenarios that are to be implemented for a given software increment are summed to develop the effort estimate for 
the increment.  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Because the project duration required for the development of a software incre-ment is quite short (typically three to six weeks), this estimation approach serves 
two purposes: (1) to be certain that the number of scenarios to be included in the 
increment conforms to the available resources, and (2) to establish a basis for 
allocating effort as the increment is developed.   
 
 
33.9.2   
Estimation for WebApp Projects 
 
WebApp projects often adopt the agile process model. A modiﬁ
 ed function point 
measure, coupled with the steps outlined in Section 33.9.1, can be used to de-
velop an estimate for the WebApp. Roetzheim [Roe00] suggests the following ap-

proach when adapting function points for WebApp estimation:
  
 
 
•   
Inputs 
 are each input screen or form (for example, CGI or Java), each maintenance 
screen, and if you use a tab notebook metaphor anywhere, each tab.    
 
•   
Outputs 
 are each static Web page, each dynamic Web page script (for example, 
ASP, ISAPI, or other DHTML script), and each report (whether Web based or ad-

ministrative in nature).    
 
•   
Tables
 
 are each logical table in the database plus, if you are using XML to store 
data in a ﬁ le, each XML object (or collection of XML attributes). 
   
 
•   
Interfaces 
 retain their deﬁ
 nition as logical ﬁ
 les (for example, unique record for-
mats) into our out-of-the-system boundaries.   How are 
estimates developed when 
an agile process is 
applied? ?   In the context of 

estimation for agile 
projects, “volume” 
is an estimate of the 
overall size of a user 
scenario in LOC or FP. 
pre22126_ch33_727-753.indd   747pre22126_ch33_727-753.indd   74713/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM