842 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
 
We would argue that the industry has achieved “purposeful practice,” but that 
“predictable outcomes” have remained illusive.  As MobileApps and WebApps begin to dominate the software landscape, Shaw 
identiﬁ es challenges that “emerge from the deep interdependencies between 
very complex systems and their users” [Sha09]. She argues that the knowledge 
base that leads to “purposeful practice” has been democratized by the specialized 
social networks that now populate the Web. For example, rather than referenc-

ing a centrally controlled software engineering handbook, a software engineer 
can pose a problem on an appropriate forum and obtain a crowd-sourced solu-
tion that draws from the experience of many other developers. The proposed 
solution if often critiqued in real time, with alternatives and adaptations offered 
as options.  But this is not the level of discipline that many demand. As Shaw states: “[P]ro-blems facing software engineers are increasingly situated in complex social con-
texts, and delineating the problem’s boundaries is increasingly difﬁ
 cult” [Sha09]. 
As a consequence, isolating the scientiﬁ c underpinnings of a discipline remains 
a challenge. At this point in the history of our ﬁ eld, it is reasonable to state that 
“the discovery of new software engineering ideas is, by now, naturally incremen-

tal and evolutionary” [Erd10].   
 
 
 
 38.3  
OBSERVING SOFTWARE
 ENGINEERING TRENDS   
  
 
Barry Boehm [Boe08] suggests that “software engineers [will] face the often for-
midable challenges of dealing with rapid change, uncertainty and emergence, 
dependability, diversity, and interdependence, but they also have opportunities 

to make signiﬁ cant contributions that will make a difference for the better.” But 
what are the trends that will enable you to face these challenges in the years 
ahead?   
 
In the introduction to this chapter, we noted that “soft trends” have a signiﬁ
 -cant impact on the overall direction of software engineering. But other (“harder”) 
research- and technology-oriented trends remain important. Research trends 
“are driven by general perceptions of the state of the art and the state of the 
practice, by researcher perceptions of practitioner needs, by national funding 
programs that rally around speciﬁ c strategic goals, and by sheer technical inter-
est” [Mil00b]. Technology trends occur when research trends are extrapolated to 

meet industry needs and are shaped by market-driven demand.  In Section 38.1, we discussed the S-curve model for technology evolution. The S-curve is appropriate for considering the long-term effects of core technologies 
as they evolve. But what of more modest, short-term innovations, tools, and meth-
ods? The Gartner Group [Gar08]—a consultancy that studies technology trends 
across many industries—has developed a  hype cycle for emerging technologies,
 
  
 uote:  “I think there is 
a world market 
for maybe ﬁ ve 

computers.”  Thomas Watson, 
chairman of IBM, 1943 pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   842pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   84213/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM