766 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34.5.1   
Time-Line Charts 
 
When creating a software project schedule, you begin with a set of tasks (the work breakdown structure). If automated tools are used, the work breakdown is 
input as a task network or task outline. Effort, duration, and start date are then 
input for each task. In addition, tasks may be assigned to speciﬁ c individuals. 
  
 
 
 
 
As a consequence of this input, a  time-line chart, 
 also called a  
Gantt chart, 
 is generated. A time-line chart can be developed for the entire project. Alter-

natively, separate charts can be developed for each project function or for each 

individual working on the project.   
 
Figure 34.3  
 illustrates the format of a time-line chart. It depicts a part of a 
software project schedule that emphasizes the  concept scoping 
 task for a 
word-processing (WP) software product. All project tasks (for concept scoping) 
are listed in the left-hand column. The horizontal bars indicate the duration of 
each task. When multiple bars occur at the same time on the calendar, task con-

currency is implied. The diamonds indicate milestones.  
 
 
 
  Once the information necessary for the generation of a time-line chart has been input, the majority of software project scheduling tools produce  project 
   A time-line chart 
enables you to 
determine what tasks 

will be conducted at a 
given point in time. Identify needs and benefitsMeet with customers
Identify needs and project constraints
Establish product statement
Milestone: Product statement defined
Define desired output/control/input (OCI)
Scope keyboard functions
Scope voice input functions
Scope modes of interaction
Scope document diagnosis
Scope other WP functions
Document OCI
FTR: Review OCI with customer
Revise OCI as required 
Milestone: OCI defined
Define the function/behavior
Define keyboard functions
Define voice input functions
Describe modes of interaction
Describe spell/grammar check
Describe other WP functions
FTR: Review OCI definition with customer
Revise as required
Milestone: OCI definition complete
Isolation software elements
Milestone: Software elements defined
Research availability of existing software
Research text editing components
Research voice input components
Research file management components
Research spell/grammar check components
Milestone: Reusable components identifiedDefine technical feasibilityEvaluate voice input
Evaluate grammar checking
Milestone: Technical feasibility assessed

Make quick estimate of size
Create a scope definition
Review scope document with customer
Revise document as required
Milestone: Scope document completeI.1.1I.1.2I.1.3I.1.4I.1.5I.1.6I.1.7I.1.8Work tasksWeek 1Week 2Week 3Week 4Week 5
 FIGURE 34.3 
An example time-line chartpre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   766pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   76613/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM