438 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
Referring to the ﬁ gure, the effort expended when reviews are used does in-
crease early in the development of a software increment, but this early invest-
ment for reviews pays dividends because testing and corrective effort is reduced. 
As important, the deployment date for development with reviews is sooner than 
the deployment date without reviews. Reviews don’t take time, they save it!   
 
 
 
 
 
 20.4 R
EVIEWS: A FORMALITY SPECTRUM  
 
Technical reviews should be applied with a level of formality that is appropriate for 
the product to be built, the project time line, and the people who are doing the work. 

 Figure 20.5  depicts a reference model for technical reviews [Lai02] that identiﬁ
 es four 
characteristics that contribute to the formality with which a review is conducted. 
 
 
 
 
  Each of the reference model characteristics helps to deﬁ ne the level of review 
formality. The formality of a review increases when (1) distinct roles are explicitly 

deﬁ ned for the reviewers, (2) there is a sufﬁ
 cient amount of planning and prepa-
ration for the review, (3) a distinct structure for the review (including tasks and 

internal work products) is deﬁ ned, and (4) follow-up by the reviewers occurs for 
any corrections that are made.  To understand the reference model, let’s assume that you’ve decided to re-
view the interface design for   
SafeHomeAssured.com 
 
. You can do this in a variety 
of different ways that range from relatively casual to extremely rigorous. If you 
decide that the casual approach is most appropriate, you ask a few colleagues 
(peers) to examine the interface prototype in an effort to uncover potential prob-
lems. All of you decide that there will be no advance preparation, but that you 
will evaluate the prototype in a reasonably structured way—looking at layout 
ﬁ rst, aesthetics next, navigation options after that, and so on. As the designer, 
you decide to take a few notes, but nothing formal.  FIGURE 20.5 
Reference 
model for 
technical 
reviews
ReviewPlanning& preparationRolesindividualsplayMeetingstructureCorrection &verificationpre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   438pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   43813/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM