CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 331 
 
 
 
15.3.3 Analysis of Display Content 
 
The user tasks identiﬁ ed in Section 15.3.2 lead to the presentation of a variety of 
different types of content. Analysis modeling techniques discussed in Chapters 9 
through 11 identify the output data objects that are produced by an application. 
These data objects may be (1) generated by components (unrelated to the inter-

face) in other parts of an application, (2) acquired from data stored in a database 
that is accessible from the application, or (3) transmitted from systems external 
to the application in question.  
 
 
   
During this interface analysis step, the format and aesthetics of the content (as it is displayed by the interface) are considered. Among the questions that are 
asked and answered are:  
 
 
•  Are different types of data assigned to consistent geographic locations on the screen (e.g., photos always appear in the upper right-hand corner)?   
 
 
•  Can the user customize the screen location for content?   
 
 
•  Is proper on-screen identiﬁ cation assigned to all content? 
  
 
 
•  If a large report is to be presented, how should it be partitioned for ease of understanding?   
 
 
•  Will mechanisms be available for moving directly to summary information 
for large collections of data?   
 
 
•  Will graphical output be scaled to ﬁ
 t within the bounds of the display 
 device that is used?   
 
 
•  How will color be used to enhance understanding?   
 
 
•  How will error messages and warnings be presented to the user?  
 
  The answers to these (and other) questions will help you to establish require-ments for content presentation.   
 
15.3.4 Analysis of the Work Environment 
 
Hackos and Redish [Hac98] make the following statement about work environment 
analysis when they state: “People do not perform their work in isolation. They are 

inﬂ uenced by the activity around them, the physical characteristics of the work-
place, the type of equipment they are using, and the work relationships they have 

with other people.” In some applications the user interface for a computer-based 

system is placed in a “user-friendly location” (e.g., proper lighting, good display 

height, easy keyboard access), but in others (e.g., a factory ﬂ oor or an airplane cock-
pit), lighting may be suboptimal, noise may be a factor, a keyboard or mouse or 

touch screen may not be an option, display placement may be less than ideal. The 

interface designer may be constrained by factors that mitigate against ease of use. 
 In addition to physical environmental factors, the workplace culture also comes into play. Will system interaction be measured in some manner (e.g., time 

per transaction or accuracy of a transaction)? Will two or more people have to 
 How do we 
determine the format and 
aesthetics of 
content displayed 
as part of the UI? ?pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   331pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   33113/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM