668 PART 
THREE  QUALITY MANAGEMENTalso leads to greater design complexity. On the positive side, large DIT values 

imply that many methods may be reused.  
        
Number of children (NOC).   The subclasses that are immediately subordinate to a class in the class hierarchy are termed its children. Referring to   Figure 30.5  , 
class  C2  has three children—subclasses  C21, C22,  and  C30.  As the number of children grows, reuse increases, but also, as NOC increases, the abstraction represented 
by the parent class can be diluted if some of the children are not appropriate 
members of the parent class. As NOC increases, the amount of testing (required 
to exercise each child in its operational context) will also increase.    
Coupling between object classes (CBO).   The CRC model (Chapter 10) may be 
used to determine the value for CBO. In essence, CBO is the number of collab-
orations listed for a class on its CRC index card.  9  
 As CBO increases, it is likely 
that the reusability of a class will decrease. High values of CBO also compli-
cate modiﬁ cations and the testing that ensues when modiﬁ cations are made. In 

general, the CBO values for each class should be kept as low as is reasonable. 

This is consistent with the general guideline to reduce coupling in conventional 

software. 
    
Response for a class (RFC).   The response set of a class is “a set of methods that can potentially be executed in response to a message received by an object of 
that class” [Chi94]. RFC is the number of methods in the response set. As RFC in-
creases, the effort required for testing also increases because the test sequence    The concepts of 

coupling and cohe-
sion apply to both 
conventional and OO 
software. Keep class 
coupling low and class 
and operation cohesion 
high.   F
IGURE 30.5 A class 

hierarchy   
CC1C11C211C21C22C23C2  9 
 If CRC index cards are developed manually, completeness and consistency must be assessed 
before CBO can be determined reliably. 
