36 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
 
 
 2.   Task pattern
 
—deﬁ nes a problem associated with a software engineer-
ing action or work task and relevant to successful software engineering 
practice (e.g.,  RequirementsGathering 
 is a task pattern).    
 
 3.   Phase pattern 
—deﬁ ne the sequence of framework activities that occurs 
within the process, even when the overall ﬂ ow of activities is iterative 
in nature. An example of a phase pattern might be  SpiralModel 
 or  Prototyping 
.  3 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Initial Context. 
 Describes the conditions under which the pattern applies. Prior to the initiation of the pattern: (1) What organizational or team-related 
activities have already occurred? (2) What is the entry state for the process? 
 For example, the  Planning 
 pattern (a stage pattern) requires that (1) custom-ers and software engineers have established a collaborative communication; 
 ed] for the 
 Communication 
 pattern has occurred; and (3) the project scope, basic business requirements, and project constraints are known.   
Problem. 
 The speciﬁ c problem to be solved by the pattern. 
  
Solution. 
 Describes how to implement the pattern successfully. This section 
describes how the initial state of the process (that exists before the pattern 
is implemented) is modiﬁ ed as a consequence of the initiation of the pattern. 
It also describes how software engineering information or project informa-
tion that is available before the initiation of the pattern is transformed as a 
 consequence of the successful execution of the pattern.   
Resulting Context. 
 Describes the conditions that will result once the pattern has been successfully implemented. Upon completion of the pattern: (1) What 
organizational or team-related activities must have occurred? (2) What is the 
exit state for the process? (3) What software engineering information or project 
information has been developed?   
Related Patterns. 
 Provide a list of all process patterns that are directly  related to this one. This may be represented as a hierarchy or in some other  diagrammatic form. For example, the stage pattern  Communication 
 encom-passes the task patterns:  ProjectTeam
 
,  CollaborativeGuidelines 
,  ScopeIsolation 
,  RequirementsGathering, ConstraintDescription, 
 and  ScenarioCreation. 
   
Known Uses and Examples. 
 Indicate the speciﬁ c instances in which the 
 pattern is applicable. For example,  Communication 
 is mandatory at the  beginning of every software project, is recommended throughout the software project, and is mandatory once the  Deployment 
 activity is under way. 
 
 uote:  “We think 
that software 
developers are 
missing a vital 
truth: most 
organizations don't 
know what they 
do. They think they 
know, but they 

don't know.” 
 Tom DeMarco 
  
 
 
 
 
3  These phase patterns are discussed in Chapter 4. 
pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   36pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   3613/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM