CHAPTER 13  
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 279a lightweight architectural review process known as  pattern-based architecture 
review
 
 (PBAR) might be the best option.  PBAR is an evaluation method that leverages the relationship between archi-tectural patterns  16 
 
 and software quality attributes. A PBAR is a face-to-face audit 
meeting involving all developers and other interested stakeholders. An external 
reviewer with expertise in architecture, architecture patterns, quality attributes, 
and the application domain is also in attendance. The system architect is the 
primary presenter. 
  
A PBAR should be scheduled after the ﬁ rst working prototype or  
walking  skeleton 
 
 17 
 
 is completed. The PBAR encompasses the following iterative steps 
[Har11]:    
 
 
 1.  Identify and discuss the quality attributes most important to the system by walking through the relevant use cases ( Chapter 9 ).     
 2.  Discuss a diagram of the system’s architecture in relation to its 
requirements.     
 3.  Help the reviewers identify the architecture patterns used and match the system’s structure to the patterns’ structure. 
    
 4.  Using existing documentation and past use cases, examine the archi-tecture and quality attributes to determine each pattern’s effect on the 

 system’s quality attributes. 
    
 5.  Identify and discuss all quality issues raised by architecture patterns used in the design.     
 6.  Develop a short summary of the issues uncovered during the meeting and makes appropriate revisions to the walking skeleton.    
PBARs are well-suited to small, agile teams and require a relatively small 
amount of extra project time and effort. With its short preparation and review time, 

PBAR can accommodate changing requirements and short build cycles, and at the 

same time, help improve the team’s understanding of the system architecture. 
  
 
 
 13.10 A
RCHITECTURE CONFORMANCE CHECKING  
 
As the software process moves through design and into construction, software 
engineers must work to ensure that an implemented and evolving system con-
forms to its planned architecture. Many things (e.g., conﬂ icting requirements, 
 
 
16  An  
architectural pattern
 
 is a generalized solution to an architectural design problem with a 
speciﬁ c set of conditions or constraints. Patterns are discussed in detail in  
Chapter 16 .   
17  A walking skeleton contains a baseline architecture that supports the functional requirements 
with the highest priorities in the business case and the most challenging quality attributes. pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   279pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   27913/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM