144 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
In reality, others would contribute to this narrative during the 
 requirements-gathering meeting and considerably more information would be available. But even with additional information, ambiguity is present, omissions 
are likely to exist, and errors might occur. For now, the preceding “functional 

description” will sufﬁ ce. 
 While reviewing the product request in the days before the meeting, each at-tendee is asked to make a list of objects that are part of the environment that 
surrounds the system, other objects that are to be produced by the system, and 
objects that are used by the system to perform its functions. In addition, each 
attendee is asked to make another list of services (processes or functions) that 
manipulate or interact with the objects. Finally, lists of constraints (e.g., cost, size, 

business rules) and performance criteria (e.g., speed, accuracy) are also devel-
oped. The attendees are informed that the lists are not expected to be exhaustive 
but are expected to reﬂ ect each person’s perception of the system. 
  Objects described for  SafeHome 
 might include the control panel, smoke de-
tectors, window and door sensors, motion detectors, an alarm, an event (a sen-
sor has been activated), a display, a PC, telephone numbers, a telephone call, 

and so on. The list of services might include  conﬁ guring
 
 the system,  
setting 
 the 
alarm,  monitoring 
 the sensors,  
dialing 
 the phone,  
programming
 
 the control 
panel, and  reading
 
 the display (note that services act on objects). In a similar 
fashion, each attendee will develop lists of constraints (e.g., the system must 
recognize when sensors are not operating, must be user friendly, must interface 

directly to a standard phone line) and performance criteria (e.g., a sensor event 
should be recognized within one second, and an event priority scheme should 
be implemented).   
 
 
 
 
The lists of objects can be pinned to the walls of the room using large sheets of paper, stuck to the walls using adhesive-backed sheets, or written on a wall 

board. Alternatively, the lists may have been posted on a group forum, at an in-

ternal website, or posed in a social networking environment for review prior to 
the meeting. Ideally, each listed entry should be capable of being manipulated 

separately so that lists can be combined, entries can be deleted, and additions 
can be made. At this stage, critique and debate are strictly prohibited.  After individual lists are presented in one topic area, the group creates a com-bined list by eliminating redundant entries, adding any new ideas that come up 
during the discussion, but not deleting anything. After you create combined lists 
for all topic areas, discussion—coordinated by the facilitator—ensues. The com-
bined list is shortened, lengthened, or reworded to properly reﬂ ect the product 
or system to be developed. The objective is to develop a consensus list of objects, 
services, constraints, and performance for the system to be built.  In many cases, an object or service described on a list will require further explanation. To accomplish this, stakeholders develop  
mini-speciﬁ cations
 
 for 
   Avoid the impulse to 
shoot down a cus-
tomer’s idea as “too 

costly” or “impracti-
cal.” The idea here is 
to negotiate a list that 
is acceptable to all. To 

do this, you must keep 
an open mind.   uote:  “Facts do not cease 
to exist because 
they are ignored.”  Aldous Huxley 
   If a system or product 

will serve many users, 

be absolutely certain 

that requirements are 
elicited from a repre-
sentative cross section 
of users. If only one 
user deﬁ nes all require-

ments, acceptance risk 
is high. pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   144pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14413/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM