352 PART TWO  
MODELING 
In essence, the designer of a framework will argue that one reusable mini-architecture is applicable to all software to be developed within a limited domain 
of application. To be most effective, frameworks are applied with no changes. 

Additional design elements may be added, but only via the plug points that allow 
the designer to ﬂ esh out the framework skeleton. 
 
 
 
16.1.3  Describing a Pattern 
 
Pattern-based design begins with the recognition of patterns within the appli-cation you intend to build, continues with a search to determine whether others 
have addressed the pattern, and concludes with the application of an appropri-
ate pattern to the problem at hand. The second of these three tasks is often the 
most difﬁ cult. How do you ﬁ
 nd patterns that ﬁ
 t your needs? 
 An answer to this question must rely on effective communication of the prob-lem the pattern addresses, the context in which the pattern resides, the system 
of forces that mold the context, and the solution that is proposed. To communi-

cate this information unambiguously, a standard form or template for pattern 

descriptions is required. Although a number of different pattern templates have 
been proposed, almost all contain a major subset of the content suggested by 
Gamma and his colleagues [Gam95]. A simpliﬁ ed pattern template is shown in 
the sidebar. 
 
 
 
  
 
Design Pattern Template 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pattern name
 
—describes the essence of 
the pattern in a short but expressive 
name 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Problem— 
describes the problem that the pattern 
addresses    
 
 
 
 
 
Motivation 
—provides an example of the problem    
 
 
 
 
 
Context— 
describes the environment in which the problem resides including the application domain    
 
 
 
 
 
Forces— 
lists the system of forces that affect the manner in which the problem must be solved; includes a 
discussion of limitation and constraints that must be 
considered    
 
 
 
 
 
Solution— 
provides a detailed description of the solution proposed for the problem    
 
 
 
 
 
Intent 
—describes the pattern and what it does 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Collaborations 
—describes how other patterns contribute 
to the solution    
 
 
 
 
 
Consequences 
—describes the potential trade-offs that must be considered when the pattern is implemented 

and the consequences of using the pattern 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Implementation 
—identiﬁ es special issues that should be 
considered when implementing the pattern 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Known uses 
—provides examples of actual uses of the design pattern in real applications 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Related patterns
 
—cross-references related design patterns 
 
 
  
INFO  
 
 
The names of design patterns should be chosen with care. One of the key tech-nical problems in pattern-based design is the inability to ﬁ nd existing patterns 
when hundreds or thousands of candidate patterns exist. The search for the 
“right” pattern is aided immeasurably by a meaningful pattern name.   uote:  “Patterns are half-
baked—meaning 
you always have 
to ﬁ nish them 

yourself and adapt 
them to your own 
environment.”  Martin Fowler 
pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   352pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   35216/12/13   6:22 PM16/12/13   6:22 PM