CHAPTER 11  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: BEHAVIOR, PATTERNS, AND WEB/MOBILE APPS
 203 
 
 
 
 11.1 C
REATING
 A BEHAVIORAL
 MODEL   
 
 
  
 
The modeling notation that has been discussed in the preceding chapters rep-resents static elements of the requirements model. It is now time to make a tran-
sition to the dynamic behavior of the system or product. To accomplish this, you 

can represent the behavior of the system as a function of speciﬁ c events and time. 
 The  behavioral model 
 indicates how software will respond to external events 
or stimuli. To create the model, you should perform the following steps: (1) eval-

uate all use cases to fully understand the sequence of interaction within the sys-
tem, (2) identify events that drive the interaction sequence and understand how 
these events relate to speciﬁ c objects, (3) create a sequence for each use case, 
(4) build a state diagram for the system, and (5) review the behavioral model to 
verify accuracy and consistency. Each of these steps is discussed in the sections 

that follow. 
  
 
 
 11.2 I
DENTIFYING EVENTS WITH THE USE CASE  
 
In Chapter 9, you learned that the use case represents a sequence of activities that involves actors and the system. In general, an event occurs whenever the 
system and an actor exchange information. An event is  not 
 the information that 
has been exchanged, but rather the fact that information has been exchanged.  A use case is examined for points of information exchange. To illustrate, re-
consider the use case for a portion of the  SafeHome 
 security function. 
 
The  homeowner uses the keypad to key in a four-digit password 
. The  password is compared with the valid password stored in the system . If the password is incorrect, the  control panel will beep  once and reset itself for additional input. If the password 
is correct, the control panel awaits further action.  
  
The underlined portions of the use case scenario indicate events. An actor should be identiﬁ ed for each event; the information that is exchanged should be 
noted, and any conditions or constraints should be listed.  As an example of a typical event, consider the underlined use case phrase “homeowner uses the keypad to key in a four-digit password.” In the context 

of the requirements model, the object,  Homeowner,
 
 
 1 
 
 transmits an event to the 
object  ControlPanel. 
 The event might be called  
password entered
 
. The informa-tion transferred is the four digits that constitute the password, but this is not an 
essential part of the behavioral model. It is important to note that some events 
have an explicit impact on the ﬂ ow of control of the use case, while others have 
no direct impact on the ﬂ ow of control. For example, the event  
password entered
 
  How do 
I model the software’s 

reaction to some 
external event? ?  
1  In this example, we assume that each user (homeowner) that interacts with  
SafeHome 
 has an 
identifying password and is therefore a legitimate object. pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   203pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   20313/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM