CHAPTER 11  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: BEHAVIOR, PATTERNS, AND WEB/MOBILE APPS
 217 
The content model must be capable of describing the content object  Component. 
 In many instances, a simple list of content objects, coupled with 
a brief description of each object, is sufﬁ cient to deﬁ
 ne the requirements for 
content that must be designed and implemented. However, in some cases, the 

content model may beneﬁ t from a richer analysis that graphically illustrates 
the relationships among content objects and/or the hierarchy of content main-
tained by a WebApp. 
  For example, consider the  data tree
 
 [Sri01] created for a  
www.safehomeassured
.com 
 component shown in  
Figure 11.5 . The tree represents a hierarchy of informa-tion that is used to describe a component. Simple or composite data items (one or 

more data values) are represented as unshaded rectangles. Content objects are 

represented as shaded rectangles. In the ﬁ gure, description is deﬁ
 ned by ﬁ
 ve con-
tent objects (the shaded rectangles). In some cases, one or more of these objects 

would be further reﬁ ned as the data tree expands. 
 A data tree can be created for any content that is composed of multiple con-tent objects and data items. The data tree is developed in an effort to deﬁ ne 
hierarchical relationships among content objects and to provide a means for re-
viewing content so that omissions and inconsistencies are uncovered before de-
sign commences. In addition, the data tree serves as the basis for content design.   
 
11.5.5  Interaction Model for Web and Mobile Apps 
 
The vast majority of Web and mobile apps enable a “conversation” between an 
end user and application functionality, content, and behavior. This conversation 

can be described using an  interaction 
 model that can be composed of one or 
more of the following elements: (1) use cases, (2) sequence diagrams, (3) state 
diagrams,  10 
 
 and/or (4) user interface prototypes.   
In many instances, a set of use cases  11 
 
 is sufﬁ
 cient to describe the interaction 
at an analysis level (further reﬁ nement and detail is introduced during design). 
Marketing descriptionPhotographTech description
SchematicVideo
Wholesale pricePart number
Part name
Part type
ComponentDescriptionPriceRetail price 
 
FIGURE 11.5 
 
10  Sequence diagrams and state diagrams are modeled using UML notation. 
  
11  Use cases are described in detail in Chapter 9. 
 
Data tree for a 
www.safehomeassured.com 
component  
 pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   217pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   21713/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM