52 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
requirement. If a market window is missed, the software project itself may be meaningless.  8 
 
   
Evolutionary process models were conceived to address these issues, and yet, as a general class of process models, they too have weaknesses. These are sum-
marized by Nogueira and his colleagues [Nog00]:   
Despite the unquestionable beneﬁ ts of evolutionary software processes, we have 
some concerns. The ﬁ rst concern is that prototyping [and other more sophisticated 
evolutionary processes] poses a problem to project planning because of the uncertain 
number of cycles required to construct the product . . .   Second, evolutionary software processes do not establish the maximum speed of the evolution. If the evolutions occur too fast, without a period of relaxation, it is cer-

tain that the process will fall into chaos. On the other hand if the speed is too slow 
then productivity could be affected . . .  Third, [evolutionary] software processes should be focused on ﬂ exibility and 
 extensibility rather than on high quality. This assertion sounds scary. 
 
Indeed, a software process that focuses on ﬂ exibility, extensibility, and speed of 
development over high quality does sound scary. And yet, this idea has been pro-

posed by a number of well-respected software engineering experts (e.g., [You95], 

[Bac97]).   The intent of evolutionary models is to develop high-quality software  9 
 
 in an 
iterative or incremental manner. However, it is possible to use an evolutionary 

process to emphasize ﬂ exibility, extensibility, and speed of development. The 
challenge for software teams and their managers is to establish a proper balance 
between these critical project and product parameters and customer satisfac-
tion (the ultimate arbiter of software quality).   
 
 
 
 
 4.2 S
PECIALIZED PROCESS MODELS  
 
Specialized process models take on many of the characteristics of one or more of the traditional models presented in the preceding sections. However, these 

models tend to be applied when a specialized or narrowly deﬁ ned software engi-
neering approach is chosen.  10 
 
  
 
8  It is important to note, however, that being the ﬁ
 rst to reach a market is no guarantee of suc-
cess. In fact, many very successful software products have been second or even third to reach 
the market (learning from the mistakes of their predecessors).   
9  In this context software quality is deﬁ
 ned quite broadly to encompass not only customer satis-
faction, but also a variety of technical criteria discussed in Part 2 of this book.   
10  In some cases, these specialized process models might better be characterized as a collec-
tion of techniques or a “methodology” for accomplishing a speciﬁ c software development goal. 
However, they do imply a process. 
What are the potential weaknesses of 
evolutionary 

process models??pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   52pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   5213/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM