CHAPTER 34  
PROJECT SCHEDULING 759 
 
 
 
34.2.2   
The Relationship between People and Effort 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is a common myth that is still believed by many managers who are respon-sible for software development work: “If we fall behind schedule, we can always 
add more programmers and catch up later in the project.” Unfortunately, add-

ing people late in a project often has a disruptive effect on the project, causing 
schedules to slip even further. The people who are added must learn the system, 

and the people who teach them are the same people who were doing the work. 
While teaching, no work is done, and the project falls further behind.  In addition to the time it takes to learn the system, more people increase the number of communication paths and the complexity of communication through-
out a project. Although communication is absolutely essential to successful soft-
ware development, every new communication path requires additional effort 
and therefore additional time.  Over the years, empirical data and theoretical analysis have demonstrated that project schedules are elastic. That is, it is possible to compress a desired 
project completion date (by adding additional resources) to some extent. It is 
also possible to extend a completion date (by reducing the number of resources).  The  Putnam-Norden-Rayleigh (PNR) Curve
 
 
 5 
 
 provides an indication of the rela-
tionship between effort applied and delivery time for a software project. A ver-

sion of the curve, representing project effort as a function of delivery time, is 
shown in   
Figure 34.1  
. The curve indicates a minimum value  t 
 o 
 that indicates the 
least cost for delivery (i.e., the delivery time that will result in the least effort 
expended). As we move left of  t 
 o 
 (i.e., as we try to accelerate delivery), the curve 
rises nonlinearly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
As an example, we assume that a project team has estimated a level of effort  E 
 d 
 will be required to achieve a nominal delivery time  
t 
 d 
 that is optimal in terms 
   If you must add 
people to a late 
project, be sure that 
you’ve assigned them 
work that is highly 
compartmentalized. 
  
5.  Original research can be found in [Nor70] and [Put78]. 
 
FIGURE 34.1 
The relationship 

between effort 

and delivery 
timeEffort
costEdEa = m (td4/ta4)EotdtoDevelopment timeTmin = 0.75TdImpossibleregionEa = effort in person-months
td = nominal delivery time for schedule
to = optimal development time (in terms of cost)
ta = actual delivery time desired
pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   759pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   75913/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM