CHAPTER 34  
PROJECT SCHEDULING 755 
The boss smiled and encouraged the young engineer to keep up the good work. They planned to meet again in a week’s time. 
 A week later the boss called the engineer into his ofﬁ ce and asked, “Where 
are we?”  “Everything’s going well,” said the youngster, “but I’ve run into a few small 
snags. I’ll get them ironed out and be back on track soon.”  “How does the deadline look?” the boss asked.  “No problem,” said the engineer. “I’m close to 90 percent complete.” 
 If you’ve been working in the software world for more than a few years, you can ﬁ nish the story. It’ll come as no surprise that the young engineer 
 1   stayed 
percent complete for the entire project duration and ﬁ
 nished (with the help of 
others) only one month late.  
 
  This story has been repeated tens of thousands of times by software develop-ers during the past ﬁ ve decades. The big question is why? 
 
 
 
 
 
 34.1  
BASIC CONCEPTS  
 
Although there are many reasons why software is delivered late, most can be traced to one or more of the following root causes:  
 
 
•  An unrealistic deadline established by someone outside the software team and forced on managers and practitioners on the group.   
 
 
•  Changing customer requirements that are not reﬂ ected in schedule 
changes.   
 
 
•  An honest underestimate of the amount of effort and/or the number of re-sources that will be required to do the job.   
 
 
•  Predictable and/or unpredictable risks that were not considered when the project commenced.   
 
 
•  Technical difﬁ
 culties that could not have been foreseen in advance. 
  
 
 
•  Human difﬁ culties that could not have been foreseen in advance. 
  
 
 
•  Miscommunication among project staff that results in delays.   
 
 
•  A failure by project management to recognize that the project is falling behind schedule and a lack of action to correct the problem.  
 
 
  Aggressive (read “unrealistic”) deadlines are a fact of life in the software busi-ness. Sometimes such deadlines are demanded for reasons that are legitimate, 
from the point of view of the person who sets the deadline. But common sense 
says that legitimacy must also be perceived by the people doing the work.   uote:  “Excessive or 
irrational schedules 
are probably 
the single most 
destructive 
inﬂ uence in all of 

software.”  Capers Jones 
  
1.  In case you were wondering, this story is autobiographical (RSP). 
pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   755pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   75513/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM