CHAPTER 18  
MOBILEAPP DESIGN 393 
System components in mobile computing environments are likely to change their locations while MobileApps are running. In order to maintain connectiv-
ity in nomadic networks,  4 
 
 coordination mechanisms for discovering devices, ex-
changing information, maintaining security and communication integrity, and 

synchronizing actions must be developed.     
 
In addition, software engineers must identify the proper design trade-offs be-tween the expressive power of the MobileApp and stakeholder security concerns. 
Developers must seek to discover algorithms (or adapt existing algorithms) that 
are energy efﬁ cient in order to conserve battery power when possible. Middle-
ware may have to be created to allow different types of mobile devices to commu-
nicate    with each other in the same mobile networks [Gru00].  Software engineers should craft a user experience that takes advantage of de-vice characteristics and context-aware applications. The nonfunctional require-
ments (e.g., security, performance, usability) are a bit different from those for either 

WebApps or desktop software applications. T26) 

provides additional challenges because the user expects that they will work in 

a large number of physically different environments. Because MobileApps often 

execute on a variety of device platforms, portability is a important consideration. 

In addition, the time and effort associated with accommodating multiple platforms 

often increases overall project cost [Was10]. 
  
 
18.1.2  Technical Considerations 
 
The low cost of adding Web capabilities to everyday devices such as phones, 
cameras, and TVs is transforming the way people access information and use 
network services [Sch11]. Among the many technical considerations that Mobile-
Apps should address are the following:   
 
 
Multiple hardware and software platforms. 
  It is not at all unusual for a 
MobileApp to run on many different platforms (both mobile and station-
ary) with a range of differing levels of functionality. The reasons for these 

differences are in part because the hardware and software available are 
quite different from device to device. This increases both development 
cost and time. It also can make conﬁ guration management (Chapter 29) 
more difﬁ cult. 
  
Many development frameworks and programming languages. 
  MobileApps 
are currently being written in at least three distinct programming languages 

(Java, Objective C, and C#) for at least ﬁ ve popular development frame-
works (Android, iOS, BlackBerry, Windows, Symbian) [Was10]. Very few mo-

bile devices allow direct development on a device itself. Instead, MobileApp 

developers use emulators running on desktop development systems. These 
   There is always a 
trade-off between 
 security and other 

elements of the 
 MobileApp design. 
 What are 

the primary 
technical 
considerations 
when building a 
MobileApp? ?  
4    Nomadic networks 
 have changing connections to mobile devices or servers. pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   393pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   39316/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM