CHAPTER 32  
PROCESS AND PROJECT METRICS 705software process improvement, it is important to note that process is only one of a number of “controllable factors in improving software quality and organiza-
tional performance” [Pau94].  
 
 
 
 
  Referring to   
Figure 32.1  
, process sits at the center of a triangle connecting three factors that have a profound inﬂ uence on software quality and organiza-
tional performance. The skill and motivation of people have been shown [Boe81] 
to be the most inﬂ uential factors in quality and performance. The complexity of 
the product can have a substantial impact on quality and team performance. The 
technology (i.e., the software engineering methods and tools) that populates the 
process also has an impact.   In addition, the process triangle exists within a circle of environmental condi-tions that include the development environment (e.g., integrated software tools), 
business conditions (e.g., deadlines, business rules), and customer characteris-
tics (e.g., ease of communication and collaboration).  
 
 
   
You can only measure the efﬁ
 cacy of a software process indirectly. That is, you 
derive a set of metrics based on the outcomes that can be derived from the pro-
cess. Outcomes include measures of errors uncovered before release of the soft-
ware, defects delivered to and reported by end users, work products delivered 
(productivity), human effort expended, calendar time used, schedule confor-

mance, and other measures. You can also derive process metrics by measur-

ing the characteristics of speciﬁ c software engineering tasks. For example, you 
might measure the effort and time spent performing the umbrella activities and 
the generic software engineering activities described in Chapter 2.    The skill and motiva-
tion of the software 
people doing the work 
are the most important 

factors that inﬂ uence 

software quality. 
  
 
 uote:  “Software metrics 
let you know when 
to laugh and when 
to cry.” 
 Tom Gilb 
Process
Product
Technolog
yPeopleDevelopmentenvironmentCustomercharacteristicsBusinessconditions  
FIGURE 32.1 
Determinants 
for software 

quality and 
organizational 

effectiveness. 
 
  Source: Adapted from [Pau94]. pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   705pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   70513/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM