34 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
 
 
 3.  Organize notes into a brief written statement of requirements.    
 
 4.  Email to stakeholder for review and approval.  
 
  If the project was considerably more complex with many stakeholders, each with a different set of (sometime conﬂ icting) requirements, the communication 
activity might have six distinct actions (described in Chapter 8):  inception, elici-tation, elaboration, negotiation, speciﬁ cation,
 
 and 
 validation.
 
 Each of these soft-
ware engineering actions would have many work tasks and a number of distinct 
work products.   
 
 
 
 
 
 3.3 I
DENTIFYING A TASK SET  
 
Referring again to  Figure 3.1 , each software engineering action (e.g.,  elicitation, 
 an action associated with the  communication 
 activity) can be represented by a 
number of different  task sets 
—each a collection of software engineering work tasks, related work products, quality assurance points, and project milestones.    Different projects 
demand different task 
sets. The software 
team chooses the 
task set based on 
problem and project 
characteristics. Task Set 
 A task set deﬁ nes the actual work to be done 
to accomplish the objectives of a software engineering action. For example,  elicitation 
 (more com-monly called “requirements gathering”) is an important 

software engineering action that occurs during the 
  
communication 
 activity. The goal of requirements 
gathering is to understand what various stakeholders 
want from the software that is to be built.  For a small, relatively simple project, the task set for requirements gathering might look like this:  
 
 
 1.  
Make a list of stakeholders for the project.    
 
 2.  
Invite all stakeholders to an informal meeting. 
   
 
 3.  
Ask each stakeholder to make a list of features and functions required.    
 
 4.  
Discuss requirements and build a ﬁ nal list. 
   
 
 5.  
Prioritize requirements.    
 
 6.  
Note areas of uncertainty. 
 
 
  For a larger, more complex software project, a differ-
ent task set would be required. It might encompass the 
following work tasks:  
 
 
 1.  
Make a list of stakeholders for the project.    
 
 2.  
Interview each stakeholder separately to determine 
overall wants and needs.    
 
 3.  
Build a preliminary list of functions and features 
based on stakeholder input.    
 
 4.  
Schedule a series of facilitated application speciﬁ -cation meetings.    
 
 5.  
Conduct meetings.    
 
 6.  
Produce informal user scenarios as part of each 
meeting.    
 
 7.  
Reﬁ ne user scenarios based on stakeholder 
feedback.    
 
 8.  
Build a revised list of stakeholder requirements.    
 
 9.  
Use quality function deployment techniques to  prioritize requirements.    
 
 
10.  Package requirements so that they can be deliv-ered incrementally. 
   
 
11.  Note constraints and restrictions that will be placed on the system.    
 
12.  Discuss methods for validating the system.  
 
  Both of these task sets achieve “requirements gath-ering,” but they are quite different in their depth and 
formality. The software team chooses the task set that will 

allow it to achieve the goal of each action and still main-
tain quality and agility. 
INFO pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   34pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   3413/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM