342 PART TWO  
MODELING   
 6.   
Reﬁ ne interface layout and storyboards using input from aesthetic design.
 
 In most cases, you’ll be responsible for rough layout and storyboarding, 
but the aesthetic look and feel for a major commercial website is often 
 developed by graphic designers, rather than technical professionals.     
 7.   
Identify user interface objects that are required to implement the inter-
face. 
 This task may require a search through an existing object library to ﬁ nd those reusable objects (classes) that are appropriate for the interface. 
In addition, any custom classes are speciﬁ ed at this time. 
    
 8.   
Develop a procedural representation of the user’s interaction with the 
interface. 
 This optional task uses UML sequence diagrams and/or activity diagrams (Appendix 1) to depict the ﬂ ow of activities (and decisions) that 
occur as the user interacts with the WebApp. 
    
 9.   
Develop a behavioral representation of the interface. 
 This optional task makes use of UML state diagrams (Appendix 1) to represent state tran-
sitions and the events that cause them. Control mechanisms (i.e., the 
objects and actions available to the user to alter the state of an app) are 
deﬁ ned. 
    
 10.   
Describe the interface layout for each state. 
 Using design information de-veloped in Tasks 2 and 5, associate a speciﬁ
 c layout or screen image with 
each WebApp state described in Task 8. 
    
 11.   
Reﬁ ne and review the interface design model.
 
 Review of the interface should focus on usability. 
 
 
  It is important to note that the ﬁ nal task set you choose should be adapted to 
the special requirements of the application that is to be built.   
 
 
 
 15.6 D
ESIGN EVALUATION
  
 
Once you create an operational user interface prototype, it must be evaluated to determine whether it meets the needs of the user. Evaluation can span a formal-

ity spectrum that ranges from an informal “test drive,” in which a user provides 
impromptu feedback to a formally designed study that uses statistical methods 
for the evaluation of questionnaires completed by a population of end users.  The user interface evaluation cycle takes the form shown in  Figure 15.4 . After the design model has been completed, a ﬁ rst-level prototype is created. The pro-
totype is evaluated by the user, 
 8 
 
 who provides you with direct comments about 
the efﬁ cacy of the interface. In addition, if formal evaluation techniques are used 
(e.g., questionnaires, rating sheets), you can extract information from these data   
8  It is important to note that experts in ergonomics and interface design may also conduct re-
views of the interface. These reviews are called  heuristic evaluations 
 or  
cognitive walkthroughs
 
. pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   342pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   34213/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM