406 PART TWO  
MODELINGallow resource outsourcing and transfer information of information technology management to service providers while at the same time mitigating the impact 
of resource limitations on some mobile devices. A service-oriented architecture 
provides the architectural style (e.g., REST),  25 
 
 standard protocols (e.g., XML 
 26 
 
, SOAP  27 
 
), and interfaces (e.g., WSDL)  28 
 
 needed for MobileApp development. Cloud 
computing enables convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of 
conﬁ gurable computing resources (servers, storage, applications, and services). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Services computing 
 allows MobileApp developers to avoid the need to inte-
grate service source code into the client running on a mobile device. Instead, 
the service runs out of the provider’s server and is loosely coupled with the ap-

plications that make use of it through messaging protocols. A service typically 
provides an API (application programming interface) to allow it to be treated like 
an abstract black box.    
Cloud computing 
 lets the client (either a user or program) request computing 
capabilities as needed, across network boundaries anywhere or any time. The 
cloud architecture has three layers, each of which can be called as a service. 
The  software as service
 
 layer consists of software components and applications 
hosted by third-party service providers. The  platform as service 
 layer provides a collaborative development platform to assist with design, implementation, and 
testing by geographically distributed team members.  Infrastructure as a service
 
 provides virtual computing resources (storage, processing power, network con-

nectivity) on the cloud.  Mobile devices can access cloud services from any location at any time. The risks of identity theft and service hijacking require providers of mobile services 
and cloud computing to employ rigorous security engineering techniques to pro-
tect their users. Security and privacy concerns associated with cloud computing 
are discussed in Chapter 27. Using a vendor-neutral cloud service may make it 

easier to create cross-platform applications [Rat12].  Taivalsaari [Tai12] points out that making use of cloud storage can allow any 
mobile device or software features to be updated easily on millions of devices 
worldwide. In fact, it is possible to virtualize the entire mobile user experience 
so that all applications are downloaded from the cloud.  uote:   “Service-oriented 
software 
engineering 
incorporates the 
best features 
of both the 
services and 

cloud computing 
paradigms.”  Stephan Yau 
  
25   Representation State Transfer
 
 describes a networked web architectural style where the re-
source representation (e.g. a Web page) places the client in a new state. The client changes or 

transfers state with each resource representation.   
26   Extensible Markup Language 
 XML is designed to store and transport data, while HTML is de-
signed to display data.   
27   Simple Object Access Protocol
 
 is a  
protocol  speciﬁ
 cation for exchanging structured information 
in the implementation of  Web Services 
 in  computer networks .   
28   Web Services Description Language
 
 is an XML-based language for describing Web services and 
how to access them.  uote:  “Because users’ 
businesses rely 
heavily on third-
party service 

providers, there 
are serious 
concerns about how 
threats to service 

reliability could 
affect a service 

and consequently 
a cloud user’s 

business.”  Stephan Yau 
pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   406pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   40616/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM