788 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
Using the CTC format for the reuse risk noted in Section 35.4.2, you could write: 
 
Given that all reusable software components must conform to speciﬁ c design standards 
and that some do not conform, then there is concern that (possibly) only 70 percent of 

the planned reusable modules may actually be integrated into the as-built system, re-
sulting in the need to custom engineer the remaining 30 percent of components. 
 
  
This general condition can be reﬁ ned in the following manner: 
  
 
 
 
 
Subcondition 1. 
 Certain reusable components were developed by a third party with no knowledge of internal design standards.    
 
 
 
Subcondition 2. 
 The design standard for component interfaces has not been solidiﬁ ed and may not conform to certain existing reusable components. 
   
 
 
 
Subcondition 3. 
 Certain reusable components have been implemented in a language that is not supported on the target environment.  
 
  The consequences associated with these reﬁ ned subconditions remain the 
same (i.e., 30 percent of software components must be custom engineered), but 
the reﬁ nement helps to isolate the underlying risks and might lead to easier 
analysis and response.    
 
 
 
35.6  RISK MITIGATION
, MONITORING, AND MANAGEMENT    
All of the risk analysis activities presented to this point have a single goal—to assist the project team in developing a strategy for dealing with risk. An effective 
strategy must consider three issues: risk avoidance, risk monitoring, and risk 
management and contingency planning.  If a software team adopts a proactive approach to risk, avoidance is always the best strategy. This is achieved by developing a plan for  
risk mitigation. 
 For ex-
ample, assume that high staff turnover is noted as a project risk  r 1. Based on past history and management intuition, the likelihood  l 1 of high turnover is estimated 
to be 0.70 (70 percent, rather high) and the impact  x 1 is projected as critical. That 
is, high turnover will have a critical impact on project cost and schedule.   
 
 
 
 
To mitigate this risk, you would develop a strategy for reducing turnover. 
Among the possible steps to be taken are:   
 
 
•  Meet with current staff to determine causes for turnover (e.g., poor work-ing conditions, low pay, competitive job market). 
  
 
 
•  Mitigate those causes that are under your control before the project starts.   
 
 
•  Once the project commences, assume turnover will occur and develop techniques to ensure continuity when people leave.   
 
 
•  Organize project teams so that information about each development ac-tivity is widely dispersed.   
 uote:  “If I take so many 
precautions, it is 
because I leave 
nothing to chance.”  Napolean 
 What can 

we do to mitigate a risk? ?pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   788pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   78813/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM