CHAPTER 25  
TESTING WEB APPLICATIONS
 559 
 
 
 
 
25.7.2   
Client-Side Issues  
On the client side, conﬁ guration tests focus more heavily on WebApp compati-
bility with conﬁ gurations that contain one or more permutations of the follow-
ing components: hardware, operating systems, browser software, user interface 
components, plug-ins, and connectivity services (e.g., cable, DSL, WiFi). In addi-

tion to these components, other variables include networking software, the vaga-
ries of the ISP, and applications running concurrently. 
 To design client-side conﬁ
 guration tests, you must reduce the number of con-
ﬁ guration variables to a manageable number. 
 13 
 
 To accomplish this, each user cat-
egory is assessed to determine the likely conﬁ gurations to be encountered within 
the category. In addition, industry market share data may be used to predict the 

most likely combinations of components. The WebApp is then tested within these 

environments.  
 
 
  
 
 
13  Conducting tests on every possible combination of conﬁ guration components is far too time-
consuming.   
14  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
 15   Security testing is also discussed as part of security engineering in Chapter 27. 
 16  Books by Cross and Fisher [Cro07], Andrews and Whittaker [And06], and Trivedi [Tri03] provide 
useful information about the subject.  
 
Web Conﬁ
 guration Testing Tools 
  
 Objective: 
 The objective of Web 
conﬁ guration testing tools is to determine 
problems that may occur when a page is displayed by 

different web browser and operating system combinations. 
  Mechanics: 
 These tools prompt you to enter the URL of a Web page and allow you to select from dozens of 

browser and operating systems combinations. The tools 
will display thumbnails of the Web page as is appears 

on each browser version selected.   Representative Tools:  
 14 
 
  
 
 
http://browsershots.org/ 
 
—Browsershots provides an online service that allows you to test your website 

from many different browsers and operating systems.   
 
http://testingbot.com/  
— TestingBot
 
 provides a limited free trial of an online service that allows you 

to test your website using many different browsers 
and operating systems.   INFO    
 
 
 
 
 
 25.8  
SECURITY TESTING 
 15    
 
 
 
 
WebApp security is a complex subject that must be fully understood before ef-
fective security testing can be accomplished.  16 
 
 WebApps and the client-side and 
server-side environments in which they are housed represent an attractive tar-

get for external hackers, disgruntled employees, dishonest competitors, and 
anyone else who wishes to steal sensitive information, maliciously modify con-
tent, degrade performance, disable functionality, or embarrass a person, orga-

nization, or business.   
 
 uote:  “The Internet is 
a risky place to 

conduct business 

or store assets. 

Hackers, crackers, 

 

vandals, virus 

launchers, and rogue 
program purveyors 
run loose.” 
 Dorothy and 
Peter Denning pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   559pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   55913/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM