CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 327 
 
Use Cases for UI Design  
 
Use Cases for UI Design  
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Vinod’s cubicle, as user 
interface design continues. 
   
 
 
 
The players:  Vinod and Jamie, members of the 
  
SafeHome 
 software engineering team.    
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  I pinned down our marketing contact and had 
her write a use case for the surveillance interface. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  From whose point of view? 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  The homeowner, who else is there? 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  There’s also the system administrator role, even 
if it’s the homeowner playing the role, it’s a  
different point 
of view. The administrator sets the system up, conﬁ
 gures 
stuff, lays out the ﬂ  
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  All I had her do was play the role of the home-
owner when he wants to see video.    
 
 
 
Vinod:  That’s okay. It’s one of the major behaviors of 
the surveillance function interface. But we’re going to 

have to examine the system administration behavior 
   
 
 
 
Jamie (irritated):  You’re right. 
   
 
 
[Jamie leaves to ﬁ nd the marketing person. She returns 
a few hours later.] 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  I was lucky, I found her and we worked 
through the administrator use case together. Basically, 

we’re going to deﬁ ne “administration” as one function 
that’s applicable to all other  
SafeHome 
 functions. Here’s 
what we came up with.    
[Jamie shows the informal use case to Vinod.] 
  
 
 
 
 
Informal use case:  I want to be able to set or edit the 
system layout at any time. When I set up the system, I se-
lect an administration function. It asks me whether I want 

to do a new setup or whether I want to edit an existing 

setup. If I select a new setup, the system displays a draw-
ing screen that will enable me to draw the ﬂ oor plan onto 
a grid. There will be icons for walls, windows, and doors 

so that drawing is easy. I just stretch the icons to their 

appropriate lengths. The system will display the lengths in 

feet or meters (I can select the measurement system). I can 

select from a library of sensors and cameras and place 

them on the ﬂ oor plan. I get to label each, or the system 
will do automatic labeling. I can establish settings for sen-
sors and cameras from appropriate menus. If I select edit, 

I can move sensors or cameras, add new ones or delete 

existing ones, edit the ﬂ oor plan, and edit the setting for 
cameras and sensors. In every case, I expect the system to 

do consistency checking and to help me avoid mistakes. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod (after reading the scenario):  Okay, there 
are probably some useful design patter

or reusable components for GUIs for drawing  programs. I’ll betcha 50 bucks we can implement some or most of 
the administrator interface using them. 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  Agreed. I’ll check it out. 
 
 
  
SAFEHOME  
This use case provides a basic description of one important work task for the computer-aided design system. From it, you can extract tasks, objects, and the 

overall ﬂ ow of the interaction. In addition, other features of the system that 
would please the interior designer might also be conceived. For example, a dig-
ital photo could be taken looking out each window in a room. When the room is 
rendered, the actual outside view could be represented through each window. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Task Elaboration.   
In Chapter 12, we discussed stepwise elaboration (also called functional decomposition or stepwise reﬁ nement) as a mechanism for reﬁ
 ning the 
processing tasks that are required for software to accomplish some desired func-
tion. Task analysis for interface design uses an elaborative approach that assists 

in understanding the human activities the user interface must accommodate.  First, you should deﬁ ne and classify the human tasks that are required to 
accomplish the goal of the system or app. For example, let’s reconsider the 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   327pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32713/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM