CHAPTER 12  
DESIGN CONCEPTS 229 
 
 
 2.  A design should be modular; that is, the software should be logically parti-tioned into elements or subsystems.    
 
 
 3.  A design should contain distinct representations of data, architecture, in-terfaces, and components.    
 
 4.  A design should lead to data structures that are appropriate for the classes to be implemented and are drawn from recognizable data 
patterns.    
 
 5.  A design should lead to components that exhibit independent functional characteristics.    
 
 6.  A design should lead to interfaces that reduce the complexity of connec-tions between components and with the external environment.    
 
 7.  A design should be derived using a repeatable method that is driven by information obtained during software requirements analysis.    
 
 8.  A design should be represented using a notation that effectively commu-nicates its meaning.  
 
  These design guidelines are not achieved by chance. They are achieved through the application of fundamental design principles, systematic methodology, and 

thorough review. 
 
  
 uote:  “Design is not just 
what it looks like 
and feels like. 
Design is how it 
works.”  Steve Jobs 
  
echnical Review 
 
Design is important because it allows a soft-
ware team to assess the quality  3 
 
 of the soft-ware before it is implemented—at a time when errors, 
omissions, or inconsistencies are easy and inexpensive 
to correct. But how do we assess quality during design? 
The software can’t be tested, because there is no execut-

able software to test. What to do?   During design, quality is assessed by conducting a series of technical reviews (TRs). TRs are discussed in de-
tail in Chapter 20,  4 
 
 but it’s worth providing a summary 
of the technique at this point. A technical review is a 
meeting conducted by members of the software team. 
Usually two, three, or four people participate depending 

on the scope of the design information to be reviewed. 

Each person plays a role: the  review leader 
 plans the meeting, sets an agenda, and runs the  meeting; the  recorder 
 takes notes so that nothing is missed; the   
producer 
 is the person whose work product (e.g., the design of a software component) is being reviewed. 
Prior to the meeting, each person on the review team is 
given a copy of the design work product and is asked 
to read it, looking for errors, omissions, or ambiguity. 

When the meeting commences, the intent is to note all 
problems with the work product so that they can be 
corrected before implementation begins. The TR  typically lasts between 60 to 90 minutes. At the conclusion of the 
TR, the review team determines whether further actions 

are required on the part of the producer before the 

 design work product can be approved as part of the 
ﬁ nal  
design model.  
  
INFO  
 
3  The quality factors discussed in Chapter 30 can assist the review team as it assesses quality.  
  
4  You might consider looking ahead to Chapter 20 at this time. Technical reviews are a critical 
part of the design process and are an importance mechanism for achieving design quality. 
pre22126_ch12_224-251.indd   229pre22126_ch12_224-251.indd   22913/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM