824 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ﬁ rst road map activity, called  
assessment, 
 allows you to get your bearings. 
The intent of assessment is to uncover both strengths and weaknesses in the way 
your organization applies the existing software process and the software engi-
neering practices that populate the process.  Assessment examines a wide range of actions and tasks that will lead to a high-quality process. For example, regardless of the process model that is chosen, 
the software organization must establish generic mechanisms such as deﬁ ned 
approaches for customer communication; established methods for representing 
user requirements; a project management framework that includes scoping, es-
timation, scheduling, and project tracking; risk analysis methods; change man-
agement procedures; quality assurance and control activities including reviews; 
and many others. Each is considered within the context of the framework activ-
ities (Chapter 3) that have been established, and is each assessed to determine 
whether all of the following questions have been addressed:  
 
 
•  Is the objective of the activity clearly deﬁ ned? 
  
 
 
•  Are work products required as input and produced as output identiﬁ ed 
and described?   
 
 
•  Are the work tasks to be performed clearly described?   
 
 
•  Are the people who must perform the activity identiﬁ ed by role? 
  
 
 
•  Have entry and exit criteria been established?   
 
 
•  Have metrics for the activity been established?   
 
 
•  Are tools available to support the activity?   
 
 
•  Is there an explicit training program that addresses the activity?   
 
 
•  Is the activity performed uniformly for all projects?    
 
Although the questions noted imply a  yes 
 or  no 
 answer, the role of assessment is 
to look behind the answer to determine whether the activity in question is being 
performed in a manner that would conform to best practice.  As the process assessment is conducted, you (or those who have been hired to perform the assessment) should also focus on the following issues:   
Consistency.   Are important activities, actions, and tasks applied consis-
tently across all software projects and by all software teams?   
Sophistication.   Are management and technical actions performed with 
a level of sophistication that implies a thorough understanding of best 
practice?   
Acceptance.   Is the software process and software engineering practice 
widely accepted by management and technical staff?   
Commitment.   Has management committed the resources required to 
achieve consistency, sophistication, and acceptance? 
   Be sure to understand 
your strengths as well 
as your weaknesses. 
If you’re smart, you’ll 

build on the strengths. pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   824pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   82413/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM