826 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
should also consider the software engineering methods that can be applied to achieve these tasks. As choices are made, education and training should be co-
ordinated to ensure that understanding is reinforced.  Ideally, everyone works together to select various process and technology el-
ements and moves smoothly toward the installation or migration activity (Sec-
37.2.4). In reality, selection can be a rocky road. It is often difﬁ
 cult to achieve 
consensus among different constituencies. If the criteria for selection are es-
tablished by committee, people may argue endlessly about whether the criteria 
are appropriate and whether a choice truly meets the criteria that have been 
established.  It is true that a bad choice can do more harm than good, but “paralysis by analysis” means that little if any progress occurs and process problems remain. 
As long as the process characteristic or technology element has a good chance 
at meeting an organization’s needs, it’s sometimes better to pull the trigger and 

make a choice, rather than waiting for the perfect solution.   
 
 
37.2.4   
Installation/Migration  
 
Installation 
 is the ﬁ
 rst point at which a software organization feels the effects of 
changes implemented as a consequence of the SPI road map. In some cases, an 
entirely new process is recommended for an organization. Framework activities, 
software engineering actions, and individual work tasks must be deﬁ ned and 
installed as part of a new software engineering culture. Such changes represent 
a substantial organizational and technological transition and must be managed 
very carefully. 
 In other cases, changes associated with SPI are relatively minor, representing 
small, but meaningful modiﬁ cations to an existing process model. Such changes 
are often referred to as  process migration.
 
 Today, many software organizations 
have a “process” in place. The problem is that it doesn’t work in an effective man-
ner. Therefore, an incremental  
migration 
 from one process (that doesn’t work as 
well as desired) to another process is a more effective strategy. 
 Installation and migration are actually  software process redesign
 
 (SPR) ac-
tivities. Scacchi [Sca00] states that “SPR is concerned with identiﬁ cation, ap-
plication, and reﬁ nement of new ways to dramatically improve and transform 
software processes.” When a formal approach to SPR is initiated, three different 

process models are considered: (1) the existing (“as is”) process, (2) a transitional 

(“here to there”) process, and the target (“to be”) process. If the target process 

is signiﬁ cantly different from the existing process, the only rational approach 
to installation is an incremental strategy in which the transitional process is 

implemented in steps. The transitional process provides a series of way-points 

that enable the software organization’s culture to adapt to small changes over 

a period of time. 
pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   826pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   82613/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM