632 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
Configuration management.   
A conﬁ guration management facility keeps track 
of a series of conﬁ gurations representing speciﬁ
 c project milestones or produc-
tion releases.   
 
Audit trails.   
An audit trail establishes additional information about when, why, 
and by whom changes are made. Information about the source of changes can 
be entered as attributes of speciﬁ c objects in the repository. A repository trigger 
mechanism is helpful for prompting the developer or the tool that is being used 
to initiate entry of audit information (such as the reason for a change) whenever 
a design element is modiﬁ ed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 29.3  
THE SCM PROCESS    
The software conﬁ guration management process deﬁ
 nes a series of tasks that 
have four primary objectives: (1) to identify all items that collectively deﬁ ne the 
software conﬁ to 
facilitate the construction of different versions of an application, and (4) to ensure 
that software quality is maintained as the conﬁ guration evolves over time. 
 A process that achieves these objectives need not be bureaucratic and pon-derous, but it must be characterized in a manner that enables a software team to 
develop answers to a set of complex questions:   
 
 
 
 
•  How does a software team identify the discrete elements of a software conﬁ guration? 
  
 
 
•  How does an organization manage the many existing versions of a pro-gram (and its documentation) in a manner that will enable change to be 
accommodated efﬁ ciently? 
  
 
 
•  How does an organization control changes before and after software is re-leased to a customer?   
 
 
•  How does an organization assess the impact of change and manage the impact effectively?   
 
 
•  Who has responsibility for approving and ranking requested changes?   
 
 
•  How can we ensure that changes have been made properly?   
 
 
•  What mechanism is used to apprise others of changes that are made?    
These questions lead to the deﬁ nition of ﬁ
 ve SCM tasks—identiﬁ
 cation, ver-
sion control, change control, conﬁ guration auditing, and reporting—illustrated 
in  Figure 29.4  
 
.  
 
 
 
  Referring to the ﬁ gure, SCM tasks can be viewed as concentric layers. SCIs 
ﬂ ow outward through these layers throughout their useful life, ultimately becom-
ing part of the software conﬁ guration of one or more versions of an application 
or system. As an SCI moves through a layer, the actions implied by each SCM 
  uote:  “Any change, 
even a change 
for the better, is 

accompanied by 
drawbacks and 
discomforts.”  Arnold Bennett 
 What 

questions should the 
SCM process 
be designed to 
answer? ?pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   632pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   63213/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM