CHAPTER 10  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: CLASS-BASED METHODS 187 
 
Extracting the nouns, we can propose a number of potential classes:Potential ClassGeneral Classificationhomeownerrole or external entity
sensorexternal entity

control panelexternal entity

installationoccurrence

system (alias security system)thing

number, typenot objects, attributes of sensor

master passwordthing

telephone numberthing

sensor eventoccurrence

audible alarmexternal entity
monitoring service
organizational unit or external entity
 The list would be continued until all nouns in the processing narrative have been considered. Note that we call each entry in the list a “potential” object. We 

must consider each further before a ﬁ nal decision is made. 
 
 
 
   
Coad and Yourdon [Coa91] suggest six selection characteristics that should 
be used as you consider each potential class for inclusion in the analysis model:  
 
 
 1.
   
Retained information. 
 The potential class will be useful during analysis only if information about it must be remembered so that the system can 
function.   
 
 
 2.
   
Needed services. 
 The potential class must have a set of identiﬁ able opera-
tions that can change the value of its attributes in some way. 
  
 
 
 3.
   
Multiple attributes. 
 During requirement analysis, the focus should be on “major” information; a class with a single attribute may, in fact, be 

 useful during design, but is probably better represented as an attribute of  another class during the analysis activity. 
  
 
 
 4.
   
Common attributes. 
 A set of attributes can be deﬁ ned for the potential 
class and these attributes apply to all instances of the class.   
 
 
 5.
   
Common operations. 
 A set of operations can be deﬁ ned for the potential 
class and these operations apply to all instances of the class.   
 
 
 6.
   
Essential requirements.
 
 External entities that appear in the problem space and produce or consume information essential to the operation of 
any solution for the system will almost always be deﬁ ned as classes in the 
 requirements model.  
 
 
  To be considered a legitimate class for inclusion in the requirements model, 
a potential object should satisfy all (or almost all) of these characteristics. The 
decision for inclusion of potential classes in the analysis model is somewhat sub-
jective, and later evaluation may cause an object to be discarded or reinstated.  How do I 
determine whether a 
potential class 
should, in fact, 
become an 
analysis class? ?  uote:  “Classes struggle, 
some classes 
triumph, others are 
eliminated.”  Mao Zedong 
pre22126_ch10_184-201.indd   187pre22126_ch10_184-201.indd   18713/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM