700 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 31.8 S
UMMARY  
Software project management is an umbrella activity within software engineer-
ing. It begins before any technical activity is initiated and continues throughout 
the modeling, construction, and deployment of computer software.  Four Ps have a substantial inﬂ uence on software project management—
people, product, process, and project. People must be organized into effective 
teams, motivated to do high-quality software work, and coordinated to achieve 
effective communication. Product requirements must be communicated from 
customer to developer, partitioned (decomposed) into their constituent parts, 

and positioned for work by the software team. The process must be adapted to 
the people and the problem. A common process framework is selected, an ap-
propriate software engineering paradigm is applied, and a set of work tasks is 
chosen to get the job done. Finally, the project must be organized in a manner 

that enables the software team to succeed.  The pivotal element in all software projects is people. Software engineers can be organized in a number of different team structures that range from traditional 
control hierarchies to “open paradigm” teams. A variety of coordination and 
communication techniques can be applied to support the work of the team. In 
general, technical reviews and informal person-to-person communication have 
the most value for practitioners.  The project management activity encompasses measurement and metrics, estimation and scheduling, risk analysis, tracking, and control. Each of these top-
ics is considered in the chapters that follow. 
  
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
31.1.  Based on information contained in this chapter and your own experience, develop “10 commandments” for empowering software engineers. That is, make a list of 10 guide-
lines that will lead to software people who work to their full potential.    
 
31.2.  The Software Engineering Institute’s People Capability Maturity Model (People-CMM) 
takes an organized look at “key practice areas” (KPAs) that cultivate good software people. 

Your instructor will assign you one KPA for analysis and summary. 
   
 
31.3.  Describe three real-life situations in which the customer and the end user are the same. Describe three situations in which they are different.    
 
31.4.  The decisions made by senior management can have a signiﬁ cant impact on the effec-
tiveness of a software engineering team. Provide ﬁ ve examples to illustrate that this is true. 
   
 
31.5.  Review a copy of Weinberg’s book [Wei86], and write a two- or three-page summary of 
the issues that should be considered in applying the MOI model.    
 
31.6.  You have been appointed a project manager within an information systems organiza-
tion. Your job is to build an application that is quite similar to others your team has built, 

although this one is larger and more complex. Requirements have been thoroughly docu-
mented by the customer. What team structure would you choose and why? What software 

process model(s) would you choose and why?  pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   700pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   70013/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM