CHAPTER 7  
PRINCIPLES THAT GUIDE PRACTICE
 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.3.5  Deployment Principles 
 
  
As we noted in Part 1 of this book, the deployment activity encompasses three ac-tions: delivery, support, and feedback. Because modern software process models 

are evolutionary or incremental in nature, deployment happens not once, but a 
number of times as software moves toward completion. Each delivery cycle pro-
vides the customer and end users with an operational software increment that 
provides usable functions and features. Each support cycle provides documen-
tation and human assistance for all functions and features introduced during all 
deployment cycles to date. Each feedback cycle provides the software team with 
important guidance that results in modiﬁ cations to the functions, features, and 
approach taken for the next increment.   
 
 
 
 
The delivery of a software increment represents an important milestone for any software project. A number of key principles should be followed as the team 
prepares to deliver an increment:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 1. 
  Customer expectations for the software must be managed.Customer expectations for the software must be managed.
 
 Too 
often, the customer expects more than the team has promised to deliver, 

and disappointment occurs immediately. This results in feedback that is 

not productive and ruins team morale. In her book on managing expecta-
tions, Naomi Karten [Kar94] states: “The starting point for managing ex-
pectations is to become more conscientious about what you communicate 
and how.” She suggests that a software engineer must be careful about 

sending the customer conﬂ icting messages (e.g., promising more than 
you can reasonably deliver in the time frame provided or delivering more 
than you promise for one software increment and then less than promised 
for the next).    
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 2. 
  A complete delivery package should be assembled and tested.A complete delivery package should be assembled and tested.  All executable software, support data ﬁ les, support documents, and other 
relevant information should be assembled and thoroughly beta-tested with 

actual users. All installation scripts and other operational features should 

be thoroughly exercised in all possible computing conﬁ gurations (i.e., hard-
ware, operating systems, peripheral devices, networking arrangements). 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 3. 
  A support regime must be established before the software is A support regime must be established before the software is 
 
delivered. 
delivered.
 
 An end user expects responsiveness and accurate information 
when a question or problem arises. If support is ad hoc, or worse, nonex-
istent, the customer will become dissatisﬁ ed immediately. Support should 
be planned, support materials should be prepared, and appropriate 

 record-keeping mechanisms should be established so that the software team 
can conduct a categorical assessment of the kinds of support requested. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 4. 
  Appropriate instructional materials must be provided to Appropriate instructional materials must be provided to 
end users.end users. 
 The software team delivers more than the software itself.    Be sure that your 
customer knows what 
to expect before a 
software increment is 
 delivered. Otherwise, 

you can bet the 
 customer will expect 

more than you deliver. 
pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   125pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   12513/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM