864 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
 
 
 
To illustrate the progression from data to knowledge, consider census data 
indicating that the birthrate in 1996 in the United States was 4.9 million. This 
number represents a data value. Relating this piece of data with birthrates for 
the preceding 40 years, we can derive a useful piece of information—aging baby 
boomers of the 1950s and early 1960s made a last-gasp effort to have children 
prior to the end of their child-bearing years. In addition, gen-Xers began their 
childbearing years. The census data can then be connected to other seemingly 
unrelated pieces of information. For example, the current number of elemen-
tary school teachers who will retire during the next decade, the number of col-
lege students graduating with degrees in primary and secondary education, the 
pressure on politicians to hold down taxes and therefore limit pay increases for 
teachers.  
   
All of these pieces of information can be combined to formulate a representa-tion of knowledge—there will be signiﬁ cant pressure on the education system in 
the United States in the early 21st century, and this pressure will continue for a 

number of decades. Using this knowledge, a business opportunity may emerge. 
There may be signiﬁ cant opportunity to develop new modes of learning that are 
more effective and less costly than current approaches.  The road ahead for software leads to systems that process knowledge. We 
have been processing data using computers for more than 50 years and extract-
ing information for more than three decades. One of the most signiﬁ cant chal-
lenges facing the software engineering community is to build systems that take 
the next step along the spectrum—systems that extract knowledge from data 
and information in a way that is practical and beneﬁ cial. 
 
 
 
 
 
 39.4  
THE LONG VIEW  
 
In Section 39.3, we suggested that the road ahead leads to systems that “process knowledge.” But the future of computing in general and software-based systems 
in particular may lead to events that are considerably more profound.  In a fascinating book that is must reading for every person involved in com-puting technologies, Ray Kurzweil [Kur05] suggests that we have reached a time 
when “the pace of technological change will be so rapid, its impact so deep, that 
human life will be irreversibly transformed.” Kurzweil  3 
 
 makes a compelling 
argument that we are currently at the “knee” of an exponential growth curve 
that will lead to enormous increases in computing capacity over the next two   uote:  “Wisdom is 
the power that 
enables us to 
use knowledge 
for the beneﬁ t 

of ourselves and 
others.”  Thomas J. 
Watson 
  
3  It’s important to note that Kurzweil is not a run-of-the mill science ﬁ
 ction writer or a futurist 
without portfolio. He is a serious technologist who (from Wikipedia) “has been a pioneer in 

the ﬁ elds of optical character recognition (OCR), text-to-speech synthesis, speech recognition 
technology, and electronic keyboard instruments.” 
pre22126_ch39_860-868.indd   864pre22126_ch39_860-868.indd   86413/12/13   6:18 PM13/12/13   6:18 PM