6 CHAPTER 1  
THE NATURE OF SOFTWARE
made, it is likely that errors will be introduced, causing the failure rate curve to spike as shown in the “actual curve” ( Figure 1.2 ). Before the curve can return to the original steady-state failure rate, another change is requested, causing the 
curve to spike again. Slowly, the minimum failure rate level begins to rise—the 

software is deteriorating due to change.   
 
 
 
Another aspect of wear illustrates the difference between hardware and soft-ware. When a hardware component wears out, it is replaced by a spare part. There 
are no software spare parts. Every software failure indicates an error in design 
or in the process through which design was translated into machine executable 
code. Therefore, the software maintenance tasks that accommodate requests for 
change involve considerably more complexity than hardware maintenance.   
 
1.1.2  Software  
 
Application Domains  
  
Today, seven broad categories of computer software present continuing chal-
lenges for software engineers:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
System software— a collection of programs written to service other programs. Some system software (e.g., compilers, editors, and ﬁ le man-
agement utilities) processes complex, but determinate,  3 
 
 information struc-tures. Other systems applications (e.g., operating system components, 
drivers, networking software, telecommunications processors) process 
largely indeterminate data.  Increased failurerate due to sideeffectsTimeFailure rateChangeActual curve
Idealized curve
  
FIGURE 1.2 
Failure curves 
for software 
 
    Software engineering 
methods strive to 
reduce the magnitude 
of the spikes and the 
slope of the actual 
curve in  Figure 1.2 . 
  
3  Software is  determinate 
 if the order and timing of inputs, processing, and outputs is predict-
able. Software is  indeterminate 
 if the order and timing of inputs, processing, and outputs can-
not be predicted in advance. pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   6pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   613/12/13   10:00 PM13/12/13   10:00 PM