CHAPTER 33  
ESTIMATION FOR SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 751 
Regardless of the breadth of focus, the outsourcing decision is often a ﬁ nancial 
one. A detailed discussion of the ﬁ nancial analysis for outsourcing is beyond the 
scope of this book and is best left to others (e.g., [Min95]). However, a brief review 

of the pros and cons of the decision is worthwhile.  On the positive side, cost savings can usually be achieved by reducing the number of software people and the facilities (e.g., computers, infrastructure) that 
support them. On the negative side, a company loses some control over the soft-
ware that it needs. Since software is a technology that differentiates its systems, 
services, and products, a company runs the risk of putting the fate of its compet-
itiveness into the hands of a third party. 
 The trend toward outsourcing will undoubtedly continue. The only way to blunt the trend is to recognize that software work is extremely competitive at 
all levels. The only way to survive is to become as competitive as the outsourcing 
vendors themselves.  
 
 
  
 
Outsourcing  
 
Outsourcing 
 
 
The scene:  Meeting room at CPI 
Corporation early in the project.   
The players:  Mal Golden, senior manager, product 
development; Lee Warren, engineering manager; Joe 

Camalleri, executive VP, business development; and 

Doug Miller, project manager, software engineering. 
  
The conversation:    
Joe:  We’re considering outsourcing the  
SafeHome 
 soft-ware engineering portion of the product. 
  
Doug (shocked):  When did this happen? 
  
Lee:  We got a quote from an offshore developer. It 
comes in at 30 percent below what your group seems 
to believe it will cost. Here.  [Hands the quote to Doug who reads it.]   
Mal:  As you know, Doug, we’re trying to keep costs 
down and 30 percent is 30 percent. Besides, these 
people come highly recommended.   
Doug (taking a breath and trying to remain calm):  You guys caught me by surprise here, but be-
fore you make a ﬁ nal decision a few comments? 
  
Joe (nodding):  Sure, go ahead. 
  
Doug:  We haven’t worked with this outsourcing com-
pany before, right?   
Mal:  Right, 
  
Doug:  And they note that any changes to spec will be 
billed at an additional rate, right?   
Joe (frowning):  True, but we expect that things will 
be reasonably stable.   
Doug:  A bad assumption, Joe. 
  
Joe:  W
  
Doug:  It’s likely that we’ll release new versions of this 
product over the next few years. And it’s reasonable 

to assume that software will provide many of the new 
features, right?  [All nod.]   
Doug:  Have we ever coordinated an international 
project before?   
Lee (looking concerned):  
  
Doug (trying to suppress his anger):  So what 
you’re telling me is: (1) we’re about to work with an un-
known vendor, (2) the costs to do this are not as low as 

they seem, (3) we’re de facto committing to work with 
them over many product releases, no matter what they 
do on the ﬁ rst one, and (4) we’re going to learn on the 
job relative to an international project. 
 [All remain silent.]  
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch33_727-753.indd   751pre22126_ch33_727-753.indd   75113/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM