16 CHAPTER 2  
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
applied, work products (models, documents, data, reports, forms, etc.) are pro-duced, milestones are established, quality is ensured, and change is properly 
managed.  
 
 
   
Software engineering  methods 
 provide the technical how-to’s for building 
software. Methods encompass a broad array of tasks that include communica-
tion, requirements analysis, design modeling, program construction, testing, 
and support. Software engineering methods rely on a set of basic principles that 
govern each area of the technology and include modeling activities and other 
descriptive techniques.  
 
 
   
Software engineering  tools 
 provide automated or semi-automated support 
for the process and the methods. When tools are integrated so that information 
created by one tool can be used by another, a system for the support of software 

development, called  computer-aided software engineering
 
, is established.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 2.2 T
HE SOFTWARE
 PROCESS  
 
A  process
 
 is a collection of activities, actions, and tasks that are performed when 
some work product is to be created. An  activity 
 strives to achieve a broad objec-tive (e.g., communication with stakeholders) and is applied regardless of the ap-
plication domain, size of the project, complexity of the effort, or degree of rigor 
with which software engineering is to be applied. An  action 
 (e.g., architectural 
design) encompasses a set of tasks that produce a major work product (e.g., an 
architectural model). A  task 
 focuses on a small, but well-deﬁ
 ned objective (e.g., 
conducting a unit test) that produces a tangible outcome.   In the context of software engineering, a process is  not 
 a rigid prescription for 
how to build computer software. Rather, it is an adaptable approach that enables 

the people doing the work (the software team) to pick and choose the appropri-
ate set of work actions and tasks. The intent is always to deliver software in a 
timely manner and with sufﬁ cient quality to satisfy those who have sponsored its 
creation and those who will use it.  
 
 
 Tools
A quality focusMethodsProcess
  
FIGURE 2.1 
Software engi-
neering layers    
WebRef 
   
CrossTalk
  is a journal 
that provides pragmatic 
information on process, 

methods, and tools. It 
can be found at: 
  
www.stsc.hill.af.mil  ,
  What are 
the elements of a software 
process? ?  uote:  “A process deﬁ nes 
who is doing  what when  and  
how  to 
reach a certain 
goal.”  Ivar Jacobson, 
Grady Booch, and James Rumbaugh pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   16pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   1613/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM