142 PART TWO  
MODELINGneeds or goals into system requirements. Nonfunctional requirements are often listed separately in a software requirements speciﬁ cation. 
 As an adjunct to QFD, it is possible to deﬁ ne a two-phase approach [Hne11] 
that can assist a software team and other stakeholders in identifying nonfunc-
tional requirements. During the ﬁ rst phase, a set of software engineering guide-
lines is established for the system to be built. These include guidelines for best 
practice, but also address architectural style (Chapter 13) and the use of design 
patterns (Chapter 16). A list of NFRs (e.g., requirements that address usability, 

testability, security or maintainability) is then developed. A simple table lists 

NFRs as  column labels 
 and software engineering guidelines as  
row labels
 
. A rela-tionship matrix compares each guideline to all others, helping the team to assess 
whether each pair of guidelines is  complementary 
,  overlapping 
,  conﬂ icting
 
, or  independent 
.  In the second phase, the team prioritizes each nonfunctional requirement by 
creating a homogeneous set of nonfunctional requirements using a set of decision 

rules [Hne11] that establish which guidelines to implement and which to reject. 
  
 
8.2.6  Traceability 
 
 
Traceability
 
 is a software engineering term that refers to documented links be-
tween software engineering work products (e.g., requirements and test cases). A 
 traceability matrix 
 allows a requirements engineer to represent the relationship 
between requirements and other software engineering work products. Rows of 
the traceability matrix are labeled using requirement names and columns can 
be labeled with the name of a software engineering work product (e.g., a design 
element or a test case). A matrix cell is marked to indicate the presence of a link 
between the two.  The traceability matrices can support a variety of engineering development activities. They can provide continuity for developers as a project moves from 
one project phase to another, regardless of the process model being used. Trace-

ability matrices often can be used to ensure the engineering work products have 
taken all requirements into account.  As the number of requirements and the number of work products grows, it be-comes increasingly difﬁ cult to keep the traceability matrix up to date. Nonethe-
less, it is important to create some means for tracking the impact and evolution 
of the product requirements [Got11].   
 
 
 
 8.3 E
LICITING REQUIREMENTS  
 
Requirements elicitation (also called  requirements gathering
 
) combines ele-ments of problem solving, elaboration, negotiation, and speciﬁ cation. In order to 
encourage a collaborative, team-oriented approach to requirements gathering, pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   142pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14213/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM