CHAPTER 16  
PATTERN-BASED DESIGN
 363 
 
 
Whole UI. 
 Provide design guidance for top-level structure and navigation 
throughout the entire interface.   
 
 
 
 
 
Pattern: 
  Top-level navigation
 
   
Brief description: 
 Used when a site or application implements a number 
of major functions. Provides a top-level menu, often coupled with a logo or 
identifying graphic, that enables direct navigation to any of the system’s 

major functions.   
Details: 
 Major functions (generally limited to between four and seven 
function names) are listed across the top of the display (vertical column 
formats are also possible) in a horizontal line of text. Each name provides 
a link to the appropriate function or information source. Often used with 
the  bread crumbs
 
 pattern discussed later. 
  
Navigation elements: 
 Each function/content name represents a link to the 
appropriate function or content.   
 
Page layout. 
 Address the general organization of pages (for websites) or dis-
tinct screen displays (for interactive applications).   
 
 
 
 
 
Pattern: 
  Card stack
 
   
Brief description: 
 Used when a number of speciﬁ
 c subfunctions or content 
categories related to a feature or function must be selected in random 
order. Provides the appearance of a stack of tabbed cards, each selectable 

with a mouse click and each representing speciﬁ c subfunctions or content 
categories.   
Details: 
 Tabbed cards are a well-understood metaphor and are easy for 
the user to manipulate. Each tabbed card (divider) may have a slightly 
different format. Some may require input and have buttons or other nav-
igation mechanisms; others may be informational. May be combined with 
other patterns such as  drop-down list, ﬁ
 ll-in-the-blanks,
 
 and others.   
Navigation elements: 
 A mouse click on a tab causes the appropriate card to appear. Navigation features within the card may also be present, but in 

general, these should initiate a function that is related to card data, not 
cause an actual link to some other display. 
  
 
Forms and input. 
 Consider a variety of design techniques for completing form-
level input.  
 
 
   
 
Pattern: 
  Fill-in-the-blanks 
   
Brief description: 
 Allow alphanumeric data to be entered in a “text box.”   
Details: 
 Data may be entered within a text box. In general, the data are validated and processed after some text or graphic indicator (e.g., a but-
ton containing “go,” “submit,” “next”) is picked. In many cases this pattern 
can be combined with drop-down list or other patterns (e.g., SEARCH 
< drop down list
 
> FOR < ﬁ ll-in-the-blanks
 
 text box>). pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   363pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   36316/12/13   6:22 PM16/12/13   6:22 PM