CHAPTER 11  
REQUIREMENTS MODELING: BEHAVIOR, PATTERNS, AND WEB/MOBILE APPS
 213 
 
 
•  When the  ComputingComponent 
 needs to set the value of an actuator, it 
sends the value to the actuator. 
  
 
 
•  The  ComputingComponent 
 can query and set the operation state of the sensors and actuators using the appropriate methods. If an operation 
state is found to be zero, then the error is sent to the  FaultHandler 
, a class that contains methods for handling error messages, such as starting a 
more elaborate recovery mechanism or a backup device. If no recovery is 
possible, then the system can only use the last known value for the sensor 
or the default value.   
 
 
•  The  ActiveSensors 
 offer methods to add or remove the addresses or address ranges of the components that want to receive the messages in 
case of a value change.  
 
  
 
 
Consequences   
 
 
 1.
  Sensor and actuator classes have a common interface.   
 
 
 2.
  Class attributes can only be accessed through messages, and the class decides whether or not to accept the message. For example, if a value of 
an actuator is set above a maximum value, then the actuator class may not 
accept the message, or it might use a default maximum value.   
 
 
 3.
  The complexity of the system is potentially reduced because of the unifor-
mity of interfaces for actuators and sensors.    
The requirements pattern description might also provide references to other related requirements and design patterns.   
 
 
 
 
 11.5 R
EQUIREMENTS MODELING FOR WEB AND MOBILE APPS 7   
 
 
Developers of Web and mobile applications are often skeptical when the idea 
of requirements analysis is suggested. “After all,” they argue, “our development 
process must be agile, and analysis is time consuming. It’ll slow us down just 
when we need to be designing and building the application.”  Requirements analysis does take time, but solving the wrong problem takes even more time. The question for every WebApp and mobile developer is 

simple—are you sure you understand the requirements of the problem or prod-
uct? If the answer is an unequivocal yes, then it may be possible to skip require-
ments modeling, but if the answer is no, then requirements modeling should be 
performed.   
7  Portions of this section has been adapted from Pressman and Lowe [Pre08] with permission. 
pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   213pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   21313/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM