76 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
are designed to help ensure that an XP project works successfully for signiﬁ cant 
projects within a large organization:  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Readiness assessment. 
 The IXP team ascertains whether all members of 
the project community (e.g., stakeholders, developers, management) are 
on board, have the proper environment established, and understand the 
skill levels involved.    
 
 
 
 
 
Project community.
 
 The IXP team determines whether the right people, 
with the right skills and training have been staged for the project. The 
“community” encompasses technologists and other stakeholders.    
 
 
 
 
 
Project chartering. 
 The IXP team assesses the project itself to determine 
whether an appropriate business justiﬁ cation for the project exists and 
whether the project will further the overall goals and objectives of the 
organization.    
 
 
 
 
 
Test-driven management.
 
 An IXP team establishes a series of measurable 
“destinations” [Ker05] that assess progress to date and then deﬁ nes mecha-
nisms for determining whether or not these destinations have been reached. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Retrospectives. 
 An IXP team conducts a specialized technical review 
(Chapter 20) after a software increment is delivered. Called a  retrospec-
tive, 
 the review examines “issues, events, and lessons-learned” [Ker05] across a software increment and/or the entire software release.    
 
 
 
 
 
Continuous learning. 
 
 
 The IXP team is encouraged (and possibly, incented) 
to learn new methods and techniques that can lead to a higher-quality 

product.    
In addition to the six new practices discussed, IXP modiﬁ es a number of exist-
ing XP practices and redeﬁ nes certain roles and responsibilities to make them 
more amenable to signiﬁ cant projects for large organizations. For further discus-
sion of IXP, visit  
 
http://industrialxp.org  
.  
 
 
  
 uote:  “Ability is what 
you're capable of 
doing. Motivation 
determines what 
you do. Attitude 
determines how 
well you do it.”  Lou Holtz 
  
Considering Agile Software Development   
Considering Agile Software Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The Players:  Doug Miller, software engineering 
manager; Jamie Lazar, software team member; Vinod 

Raman, software team member. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
 
   
 
 
 
 
(A knock on the door, Jamie and Vinod enter Doug’s 
ofﬁ ce.) 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  Doug, you got a minute? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Sure Jamie, what’s up? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  We’ve been thinking about our process discus-
, what process we’re going 

to choose for this new  SafeHome 
 project.    
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  And? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  I was talking to a friend at another company, 
and he was telling me about Extreme Programming. It’s 

  
 
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   76pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   7613/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM