364 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
Navigation elements: 
 A text or graphic indicator that initiates validation and processing.   
 
Navigation. 
 Assist the user in navigating through hierarchical menus, Web 
pages, and interactive display screens.  
 
 
   
 
Pattern: 
  Edit-in-place 
   
Brief description: 
 Provide simple text editing capability for certain types of content in the location that it is displayed. No need for the user to enter 
a text editing function or mode explicitly. 
  
Details: 
 The user sees content on the display that must be changed. A mouse double-click on the content indicates to the system that editing is 
desired. The content is highlighted to signify that editing mode is available 
and the user makes appropriate changes.   
Navigation elements: 
 None.   
 
E-commerce. 
 Speciﬁ
 c to websites, these patterns implement recurring ele-
ments of e-commerce applications.  
 
 
   
 
Pattern: 
  Shopping cart 
   
Brief description: 
 Provides a list of items selected for purchase.   
Details: 
 Lists item, quantity, product code, availability (in stock, out of 
stock), price, delivery information, shipping costs, and other relevant 
purchase information. Also provides ability to edit (e.g., remove, change 
quantity).   
Navigation elements: 
 Contains ability to proceed with shopping or go to checkout.   
Each of the preceding example patterns (and all patterns within each category) would also have a complete component-level design, including design classes, 
attributes, operations, and interfaces.  A comprehensive discussion of user interface patterns is beyond the scope of this book. If you have further interest, see [Yah13], [UXM10], [Gub09], [Duy02], 

[Tid02], and [Bor01] for further information. 
  
 
 
 
 16.6  
WEBAPP DESIGN PATTERNS
  
 
Throughout this chapter you’ve learned that there are different types of patterns and many different ways they can be categorized. When you consider the design 
problems that must be solved when a WebApp is to be built, it’s worth consid-

ering pattern categories by focusing on two dimensions: the design focus of the 
pattern and its level of granularity.  
Design focus 
 identiﬁ
 es which aspect of the 
design model is relevant (e.g., information architecture, navigation, interaction). 
 Granularity 
 identiﬁ es the level of abstraction that is being considered (e.g., does 
pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   364pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   36416/12/13   6:22 PM16/12/13   6:22 PM