CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 141 
 
 
These questions help to identify all stakeholders who will have interest in the software to be built. In addition, the questions identify the measurable beneﬁ t 
of a successful implementation and possible alternatives to custom software 
development.   
 
 
 
 
The next set of questions enables you to gain a better understanding of the prob-lem and allows the customer to voice his or her perceptions about a solution:  
 
 
•  How would you characterize “good” output that would be generated by a successful solution?   
 
 
•  What problem(s) will this solution address?   
 
 
•  Can you show me (or describe) the business environment in which the solution will be used?   
 
 
•  Will special performance issues or constraints affect the way the solution 
is approached?  
 
 
  The ﬁ nal set of questions focuses on the effectiveness of the communication 
activity itself. Gause and Weinberg [Gau89] call these “meta-questions” and pro-

pose the following (abbreviated) list:  
 
 
•  Are you the right person to answer these questions? Are your answers “ofﬁ cial”? 
  
 
 
•  Are my questions relevant to the problem that you have?   
 
 
•  Am I asking too many questions?   
 
 
•  Can anyone else provide additional information?   
 
 
•  Should I be asking you anything else?  
 
  These questions (and others) will help to “break the ice” and initiate the com-munication that is essential to successful elicitation. But a question-and-answer 
meeting format is not an approach that has been overwhelmingly successful. In 
fact, the Q&A session should be used for the ﬁ rst encounter only and then re-
placed by a requirements elicitation format that combines elements of problem 
solving, negotiation, and speciﬁ cation. An approach of this type is presented in 
Section 8.3.   
 
8.2.5  Nonfunctional Requirements 
 
A  nonfunctional requirement
 
 (NFR) can be described as a quality attribute, a 
performance attribute, a security attribute, or a general constraint on a system. 
These are often not easy for stakeholders to articulate. Chung [Chu09] suggests 
that there is a lopsided emphasis on functionality of the software, yet the software 
may not be useful or usable without the necessary non-functional characteristics.  In Section 8.3.2, we discuss a technique called  quality function deployment 
 (QFD). Quality function deployment attempts to translate unspoken customer  What 
questions will help you gain 
a preliminary 

understanding of 
the problem? ?  uote:  “He who asks a 
question is a fool 
for ﬁ ve minutes; 

he who does not 
ask a question is a 
fool forever.” 
 Chinese proverb 
pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   141pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14113/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM