866 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
 
 
 
 2.  
CLIENT AND EMPLOYER—Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest.    
 
 3.  
PRODUCT—Software engineers shall ensure that their products and related modiﬁ -cations meet the highest professional standards possible.    
 
 4.  
JUDGMENT—Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their professional judgment.    
 
 5.  
MANAGEMENT—Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and 
maintenance.    
 
 6.  
PROFESSION—Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of the profession consistent with the public interest.    
 
 7.  
COLLEAGUES—Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their colleagues.    
 
 8.  
SELF—Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding the prac-tice of their profession and shall promote an ethical approach to the practice of the 
profession.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Although each of these eight principles is equally important, an overriding theme appears: a software engineer should work in the public interest. On a personal 
level, a software engineer should abide by the following rules:   
 
 
•  Never steal data for personal gain.   
 
 
•  Never distribute or sell proprietary information obtained as part of your work on a software project.   
 
 
•  Never maliciously destroy or modify another person’s programs, ﬁ
 les, or 
data.   
 
 
•  Never violate the privacy of an individual, a group, or an organization.   
 
 
•  Never hack into a system for sport or proﬁ t. 
  
 
 
•  Never create or promulgate a computer virus or worm.   
 
 
•  Never use computing technology to facilitate discrimination or harassment.    
Over the past decade, certain members of the software industry have lob-bied for protective legislation that [SEE03]: (1) allows companies to release soft-
ware without disclosing known defects, (2) exempts developers from liability 

for any damages resulting from these known defects, (3) constrains others from 

disclosing defects without permission from the original developer, (4) allows 

the incorporation of “self-help” software within a product that can disable (via 

remote command) the operation of the product, and (5) exempts developers of 

software with “self-help” from damages should the software be disabled by a 

third party. 
 WebRef 
 A complete discussion 
of the ACM/IEEE code 
of ethics can be found 
at  seeri.etsu.edu/Codes/default
.shtm . pre22126_ch39_860-868.indd   866pre22126_ch39_860-868.indd   86613/12/13   6:18 PM13/12/13   6:18 PM