188 PART TWO  
MODELINGHowever, the ﬁ
 rst step of class-based modeling is the deﬁ
 nition of classes, and 
decisions (even subjective ones) must be made. With this in mind, you should 

apply the selection characteristics to the list of potential  SafeHome 
 classes:Potential ClassCharacteristic Number That Applieshomeownerrejected: 1, 2 fail even though 6 applies
sensoraccepted: all apply

control panelaccepted: all apply

installationrejected

system (alias security function)accepted: all apply

number, typerejected: 3 fails, attributes of sensor

master passwordrejected: 3 fails

telephone numberrejected: 3 fails

sensor eventaccepted: all apply

audible alarmaccepted: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 apply
monitoring service
rejected: 1, 2 fail even though 6 applies It should be noted that (1) the preceding list is not all inclusive, additional classes 
would have to be added to complete the model; (2) some of the rejected potential 

classes will become attributes for those classes that were accepted (e.g., number 

and type are attributes of  Sensor
 
, and master password and telephone number 
may become attributes of  System 
); (3) different statements of the problem might 
cause different “accept or reject” decisions to be made (e.g., if each homeowner 

had an individual password or was identiﬁ ed by voice print, the  
Homeowner 
 class 
would satisfy characteristics 1 and 2 and would have been accepted). 
  
 
 
 10.2 S
PECIFYING   
ATTRIBUTES   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Attributes 
 describe a class that has been selected for inclusion in the analysis 
model. In essence, it is the attributes that deﬁ ne the class—that clarify what is 
meant by the class in the context of the problem space. For example, if we were 
to build a system that tracks baseball statistics for professional baseball players, 
the attributes of the class  Player 
 would be quite different than the attributes of 
the same class when it is used in the context of the professional baseball pension 
system. In the former, attributes such as name, position, batting average, ﬁ
 elding 
percentage, years played, and games played might be relevant. For the latter, 

some of these attributes would be meaningful, but others would be replaced (or 
augmented) by attributes like average salary, credit toward full vesting, pension 

plan options chosen, mailing address, and the like.  To develop a meaningful set of attributes for an analysis class, you should 
study each use case and select those “things” that reasonably “belong” to the 
class. In addition, the following question should be answered for each class:  What data items (composite and/or elementary) fully deﬁ ne this class in the context of 
the problem at hand?
 
    Attributes are the set 
of data objects that 
fully deﬁ ne the class 

within the context of 
the problem. pre22126_ch10_184-201.indd   188pre22126_ch10_184-201.indd   18813/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM