CHAPTER 31  
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS 695 
Your team must decide which process model is most appropriate for (1) the 
customers who have requested the product and the people who will do the work, 
(2) the characteristics of the product itself, and (3) the project environment in 
which the software team works. When a process model has been selected, the 
team then deﬁ nes a preliminary project plan based on the set of process frame-
work activities. Once the preliminary plan is established, process decomposition 
begins. That is, a complete plan, reﬂ ecting the work tasks required to populate 
the framework activities, must be created. We explore these activities brieﬂ
 y in 
the sections that follow and present a more detailed view in Chapter 33.   
 
31.4.1   
Melding the Product and the Process 
 
Project planning begins with the melding of the product and the process. Each function to be engineered by your team must pass through the set of framework 
activities that have been deﬁ ned for your software organization. 
 Assume that the organization has adopted the generic framework activities— communication, planning, modeling, construction, 
 and  
deployment 
—discussed in Chapter 2. The team members who work on a product function will 
apply each of the framework activities to it. In essence, a matrix similar to the 
one shown in   
Figure 31.1  
 is created. Each major product function (the ﬁ
 gure 
notes functions for the word-processing software discussed earlier) is listed in 
the left-hand column. Framework activities are listed in the top row. Software 

engineering work tasks (for each framework activity) would be entered in the 
following row. 
 5 
 
 The job of the project manager (and other team members) is to 
estimate resource requirements for each matrix cell, start and end dates for the   
5  It should be noted that work tasks must be adapted to the speciﬁ
 c needs of the project based 
on a number of adaptation criteria.  FIGURE 31.1 
Melding the problem and 

the process
COMMON PROCESSFRAMEWORK ACTIVITIESSoftware Engineering Tasks
Product Functions
  Text input
  Editing and formatting

  Automatic copy edit
  Page layout capability
  Automatic indexing and TOC
  File management
  Document productioncommunicationplanningmodelingconstructiondeploymentpre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   695pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   69513/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM