548 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 3.
   
Raw data acquired from the database must be transmitted to the WebApp 
server and properly formatted for subsequent transmittal to the client.
 
 Therefore, tests that demonstrate the validity of the raw data received by 
the WebApp server must be developed, and additional tests that demon-

strate the validity of the transformations applied to the raw data to create 
valid content objects must also be created.   
 
 
 4.
   
The dynamic content object(s) must be transmitted to the client in a form that can be displayed to the end user.
 
 Therefore, a series of tests must be designed to (1) uncover errors in the content object format and (2) test 
compatibility with different client environment conﬁ gurations. 
   
Considering these four factors, test-case design methods should be applied for each of the “layers of interaction” [Ngu01] noted in  Figure 25.2 . Testing should 
ensure that (1) valid information is passed between the client and server from the 
interface layer, (2) the WebApp processes script correctly and properly extract or 

format user data, (3) user data are passed correctly to a server-side data trans-

formation function that formats appropriate queries (e.g., SQL), (4) queries are 
passed to a data management layer  5 
 
 that communicates with database access 
routines (potentially located on another machine).  
 
 
 
 
 
  The data transformation, data management, and database access layers shown in  Figure 25.2  are often constructed with reusable components that have 
 
 
 
 uote:  “[W]e are unlikely 
to have conﬁ dence 

in a website that 
suffers frequent 
downtime, hangs 
in the middle of 
a transaction, 
or has a poor 
sense of usability. 

Testing, therefore, 

has a crucial role 
in the overall 
development 
process.”  Wing Lam 
  
5  The data management layer typically incorporates an SQL call-level interface (SQL-CLI) such 
as Microsoft OLE/ADO or Java Database Connectivity (JDBC). Client layer - user interface
HTML scriptsUser dataUser dataRaw dataSQLSQLServer layer - WebApp
Server layer - data transformation
Server layer - data managment
Database layer - data accessDatabase FIGURE 25.2 
Layers of interactionpre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   548pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   54813/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM