CHAPTER 7  
PRINCIPLES THAT GUIDE PRACTICE
 111bounce from one topic to the next. The facilitator should keep the conver-
sation modular, leaving one topic only after it has been resolved (however, 

see Principle 9).    
 
 
 
Principle 8. 
  If something is unclear, draw a picture.If something is unclear, draw a picture.
 
 Verbal communication 
goes only so far. A sketch or drawing can often provide clarity when words 

fail to do the job.  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Principle 9. 
  (a) Once you agree to something, move on. (b) If you can’t (a) Once you agree to something, move on. (b) If you can’t 
agree to something, move on. (c) If a feature or function is unclear and agree to something, move on. (c) If a feature or function is unclear and 
cannot be clariﬁ ed at the moment, move on.cannot be clariﬁ ed at the moment, move on.
 
 Communication, like any soft-ware engineering activity, takes time. Rather than iterating endlessly, the 

people who participate should recognize that many topics require discus-
sion (see Principle 2) and that “moving on” is sometimes the best way to 
achieve communication agility. 
   
 
 
 
Principle 10. 
  Negotiation is not a contest or a game. It works best when Negotiation is not a contest or a game. It works best when both parties win.both parties win. 
 There are many instances in which you and other stake-holders must negotiate functions and features, priorities, and delivery 
dates. If the team has collaborated well, all parties have a common goal. 
Still, negotiation will  demand compromise from all parties.  
 
 
 
 
 Listen.Prepare before you communicate.Someone should facilitate the activity.Face-to-face communication is best.Take notes and document decisions.Strive for collaboration.Stay focused; modularize your discussion. What 
happens if 
agreement with 
the customer on 
some project-
related issue? ?  
The Difference Between 
Customers and End Users  Software engineers communicate with many different stakeholders, but customers and end users have 
the most signiﬁ cant impact on the technical work that 
follows. In some cases the customer and the end user are 
one and the same, but for many projects, the customer 
and the end user are different people, working for differ-

ent managers in different business organizations.  A  customer 
 is the person or group who (1) originally requested the software to be built, (2) deﬁ nes overall 
business objectives for the software, (3) provides basic product requirements, and (4) coordinates funding for 
the project. In a product or system business, the customer 
is often the marketing department. In an information 

technology (IT) environment, the customer might be a 
business component or department. 
 An  end user 
 is the person or group who (1) will 
 actually use the software that is built to achieve some 
business purpose and (2) will deﬁ ne operational 
 details of the software so the business purpose can 
 
  
INFO  
 
Communication Mistakes  
 
Communication Mistakes  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Software engineering 
team workspace    
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; 
Vinod Raman, software team member; Ed Robbins, 
 software team member. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Ed:  What have you heard about this  
SafeHome 
 project? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  The kick-off meeting is scheduled for next 
week.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   111pre22126_ch07_103-130.indd   11113/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM