252  
 
KEY CONCEPTS     agility and 
architecture . . . . . 280  

    archetypes . . . . . . 269  

    architectural 

decisions  . . . . . . . 266  

    architectural description 

language . . . . . . . 276  

    architectural 

descriptions . . . . . 255  

    architectural 

design . . . . . . . . . 267  
 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 13   
 
 
CHAPTER 
 
QUICK LOOK   
What is it?   Architectural design represents the structure of data and 
program components that are re-
quired to build a computer-based 
system. It considers the architectural style that 
the system will take, the structure and properties 

of the components that constitute the system, 
and the interrelationships that occur among all 
architectural components of a system.   
 
Who does it?   Although a software engineer can design both data and architecture, the job 
is often allocated to specialists when large, 
complex systems are to be built. A database 
or data warehouse designer creates the data 
architecture for a system. The “system archi-
tect” selects an appropriate architectural style 
from the requirements derived during software 
requirements analysis.   
 
Why is it important? 
  You wouldn’t attempt to 
build a house without a blueprint, would you? 
You also wouldn’t begin drawing blueprints by 

sketching the plumbing layout for the house. 
You’d need to look at the big picture—the 

house itself—before you worry about details. 
That’s what architectural design does—it pro-
vides you with the big picture and ensures that 
you’ve got it right.   
 
What are the steps?   Architectural design be-gins with data design and then proceeds to 
the derivation of one or more representations 
of the architectural structure of the system. Al-
ternative architectural styles or patterns are 

analyzed to derive the structure that is best 
suited to customer requirements and quality 
attributes. Once an alternative has been se-

lected, the architecture is elaborated using an 
architectural design method.   
 
What is the work product? 
  An architecture model encompassing data architecture and 
program structure is created during architec-
tural design. In addition, component properties 

and relationships (interactions) are described.   
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?   At each stage, software design work products 
are reviewed for clarity, correctness, complete-

ness, and consistency with requirements and 
with one another. 
  
 Design has been described as a multistep process in which represen-tations of data and program structure, interface characteristics, and 
procedural detail are synthesized from information requirements. This description is extended by Freeman [Fre80]:  
 
 
[D]esign is an activity concerned with making major decisions, often of a struc-tural nature. It shares with programming a concern for abstracting information 
representation and processing sequences, but the level of detail is quite different 
at the extremes. Design builds coherent, well-planned representations of pro-
grams that concentrate on the interrelationships of parts at the higher level and 
the logical operations involved at the lower levels.  pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   252pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   25213/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM