xxviii PREFACE
 Part 1,  The Process,  presents a variety of different views of software process, consid-ering all important process models and addressing the debate between prescriptive 
and agile process philosophies. Part 2,  Modeling,  presents analysis and design meth-ods with an emphasis on object-oriented techniques and UML modeling. Pattern-

 Quality Management,  presents the concepts, procedures, techniques, and methods that enable a software team to assess software quality, review software engineering 
work products, conduct SQA procedures, and apply an effective testing strategy and 
tactics. In addition, formal modeling and veriﬁ cation methods are also considered. 

Part 4,  Managing Software Projects,  presents topics that are relevant to those who plan, manage, and control a software development project. Part 5,  Advanced Topics,  
considers software process improvement and software engineering trends. Continu-
ing in the tradition of past editions, a series of sidebars is used throughout the book to 
present the trials and tribulations of a (ﬁ ctional) software team and to provide supple-

mentary materials about methods and tools that are relevant to chapter topics.  The ﬁ ve-part organization of the eighth edition enables an instructor to “cluster” 
topics based on available time and student need. An entire one-term course can be 
built around one or more of the ﬁ ve parts. A software engineering survey course 

would select chapters from all ﬁ ve parts. A software engineering course that empha-

sizes analysis and design would select topics from Parts 1 and 2. A testing-oriented 
software engineering course would select topics from Parts 1 and 3, with a brief foray 
into Part 2. A “management course” would stress Parts 1 and 4. By organizing the 
eighth edition in this way, we have attempted to provide an instructor with a number 
of teaching options. In every case the content of the eighth edition is complemented 
by the following elements of the  SEPA, 8/e Support System.  
   
Student Resources.   A wide variety of student resources includes an extensive on-line learning center encompassing chapter-by-chapter study guides, practice quizzes, 
problem solutions, and a variety of Web-based resources including software engineer-
ing checklists, an evolving collection of “tiny tools,” a comprehensive case study, work 
product templates, and many other resources. In addition, over 1,000 categorized  Web References  allow a student to explore software engineering in greater detail and a  Reference Library  with links to more than 500 downloadable papers provides an in-depth source of advanced software engineering information.  
  
Instructor Resources.   A broad array of instructor resources has been developed to supplement the eighth edition. These include a complete online  Instructor’s Guide  
(also downloadable) and supplementary teaching materials including a complete set 
of more than 700  PowerPoint Slides  that may be used for lectures, and a test bank. Of course, all resources available for students (e.g, tiny tools, the Web References, the 
downloadable Reference Library) and professionals are also available.  The  Instructor’s Guide for Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach  pres-ents suggestions for conducting various types of software engineering courses, rec-
ommendations for a variety of software projects to be conducted in conjunction with a 
course, solutions to selected problems, and a number of useful teaching aids.  
  
Professional Resources.   A collection of resources available to industry practitioners (as well as students and faculty) includes outlines and samples of software engineering 
documents and other work products, a useful set of software engineering checklists, 