378 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
17.5.1  Layout Issues 
 
Every Web page has a limited amount of “real estate” that can be used to sup-
port nonfunctional aesthetics, navigation features, informational content, and 
user-directed functionality. The development of this real estate is planned during 

aesthetic design.  Like all aesthetic issues, there are no absolute rules when screen layout is de-signed. However, a number of general layout guidelines are worth considering: 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Don’t be afraid of open space. 
  It is inadvisable to pack every square inch 
of a Web page with information. The resulting clutter makes it difﬁ
 cult 
for the user to identify needed information or features and create visual 
chaos that is not pleasing to the eye.    
 
 
 
 
 
Emphasize content.   After all, that’s the reason the user is there. 
eb page user should be 80 per-

cent content with the remaining real estate dedicated to navigation and 
other features.    
 
 
 
 
Organize layout elements from top left to bottom right. 
  The vast majority 
of users will scan a Web page in much the same way as they scan the page 

of a book—top left to bottom right.  5 
 
 If layout elements have speciﬁ c prior-
ities, high-priority elements should be placed in the upper-left portion of 

the page real estate.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Group navigation, content, and function geographically within the page. 
 
 
  Humans look for patterns in virtually all things. If there are no discernible 
patterns within a Web page, user frustration is likely to increase (owing to 

unnecessary searching for needed information).    
 
 
 
 
 
Don’t extend your real estate with the scrolling bar.   Although scrolling 
is often necessary, most studies indicate that users would prefer not to 

scroll. It is often better to reduce page content or to present necessary 
content on multiple pages.    
 
 
 
 
 
Consider resolution and browser window size when designing layout. 
  Rather than deﬁ ning ﬁ
 xed sizes within a layout, the design should specify 
all layout items as a percentage of available space [Nie00]. With the grow-

ing use of mobile devices with different screen sizes, this concept becomes 
increasingly important.   
 
 
 
17.5.2  Graphic Design Issues 
 
Graphic design considers every aspect of the look and feel of a WebApp. The 
graphic design process begins with layout (Section 17.5.1) and proceeds into a 
consideration of global color schemes; type fonts, sizes, and styles; the use of   uote:  “We ﬁ nd that 
people quickly 
evaluate a site 
by visual design 
alone.”   Stanford 
Guidelines for Web Credibility  
  
 
 
 
 
5  There are exceptions that are cultural and language-based, but this rule holds for most users. 
pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   378pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   37813/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM