CHAPTER 36  
MAINTENANCE AND REENGINEERING 815 
Business process reengineering deﬁ nes business goals; identiﬁ
 es and evaluates 
existing business processes (in the context of deﬁ ned goals); speciﬁ
 es and designs 
revised processes; and prototypes, reﬁ nes, and instantiates them within a business. 
BPR has a focus that extends beyond software. The result of BPR is often the deﬁ -nition of ways in which information technologies can better support the business. 
 Software reengineering encompasses a series of activities that include inventory 
analysis, document restructuring, reverse engineering, program and data restruc-
turing, and forward engineering. The intent of these activities is to create versions of 

existing programs that exhibit higher quality and better  maintainability—programs 
that will be viable well into the twenty-ﬁ rst century. 
 The cost-beneﬁ t of reengineering can be determined quantitatively. The cost of 
the status quo, that is, the cost associated with ongoing support and maintenance 

of an existing application, is compared to the projected costs of reengineering and 

the resultant reduction in maintenance and support costs. In almost every case 

in which a program has a long life and currently exhibits poor maintainability or 

supportability, reengineering represents a cost-effective business strategy. 
  
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
 
36.1.  Consider any job that you’ve held in the last ﬁ ve years. Describe the business process 
in which you played a part. Use the BPR model described in Section 36.4.2 to recommend 
changes to the process in an effort to make it more efﬁ cient. 
   
 
36.2.  Do some research on the efﬁ cacy of business process reengineering. Present pro and 
con arguments for this approach.    
 
36.3.  Your instructor will select one of the programs that everyone in the class has devel-
oped during this course. Exchange your program randomly with someone else in the class. 
Do not explain or walk through the program. Now, implement an enhancement (speciﬁ
 ed 
by your instructor) in the program you have received.    
 
 
 a.  
 
Perform all software engineering tasks including a brief walkthrough (but not with the author of the program).     
 
b.  Keep careful track of all errors encountered during testing.    
 
 c.  
Discuss your experiences in class.  
 
   
 
36.4.  Explore the inventory analysis checklist presented at the SEPA website and attempt to 
develop a quantitative software rating system that could be applied to existing programs in 
an effort to pick candidate programs for reengineering. Your system should extend beyond 

the economic analysis presented in Section 36.9.    
 
36.5.  Suggest alternatives to paper and ink or conventional electronic documentation that could serve as the basis for document restructuring. (Hint: Think of new descriptive tech-
nologies that could be used to communicate the intent of the software.)    
 
36.6.  Some people believe that artiﬁ cial intelligence technology will increase the abstrac-
tion level of the reverse engineering process. Do some research on this subject (i.e., the use 
of AI for reverse engineering), and write a brief paper that takes a stand on this point.    
 
36.7.  Why is completeness difﬁ cult to achieve as abstraction level increases? 
   
 
36.8.  Why must interactivity increase if completeness is to increase?    
 
36.9.  Using information obtained via the Web, present characteristics of three reverse engi-
neering tools to your class.  pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   815pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   81513/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM