306 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
14.4.1 Content Design at the Component Level 
 
Content design at the component level focuses on content objects and the man-ner in which they may be packaged for presentation to a WebApp end user. The 

formality of content design at the component level should be tuned to the char-

acteristics of the WebApp to be built. In many cases, content objects need not 

be organized as components and can be manipulated individually. However, as 

the size and complexity (of the WebApp, content objects, and their interrelation-

ships) grows, it may be necessary to organize content in a way that allows eas-
ier reference and design manipulation.  6 
 
 In addition, if content is highly dynamic 
(e.g., the content for an online auction site), it becomes important to establish a 
clear structural model that incorporates content components.   
 
 
14.4.2 Functional Design at the Component Level 
 
WebApp functionality is delivered as a series of components developed in paral-
lel with the information architecture to ensure consistency. In essence you begin 

by considering both the requirements model and the initial information archi-
tecture and then examining how functionality affects the user’s interaction with 

the application, the information that is presented, and the user tasks that are 
conducted.  During architectural design, WebApp content and functionality are combined 
to create a functional architecture. A  functional architecture
 
 is a representation 
of the functional domain of the WebApp and describes the key functional compo-

nents in the WebApp and how these components interact with each other. 
  
 
 
 
 14.5 C
OMPONENT-LEVEL DESIGN FOR MOBILE APPS  
 
In Chapter 13 we noted that mobile apps are typically structured using multi-layered architectures, including a user interface layer, a business layer, and a 

data layer. If you are building a mobile app as a thin Web-based client, the only 

components residing on a mobile device are those required to implement the 
user interface. Some mobile apps may incorporate the components required to 
implement the business and/or data layers on the mobile device subjecting these 
layers to the limitations of the physical characteristics of the device.  Considering the user interface layer ﬁ rst, it is important to recognize that a 
small display area requires the designer to be more selective in choosing the 
content (text and graphics) to be displayed. It may be helpful to tailor the content 
to a speciﬁ c user group(s) and display only what each group needs. The busi-
ness and data layers are often implemented by composing web or cloud service   
6  Content components can also be reused in other WebApps. 
pre22126_ch14_285-316.indd   306pre22126_ch14_285-316.indd   30613/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM