892 APPENDIX 2  
OBJECT-ORIENTED CONCEPTS
 
Now that we have introduced a few basic concepts, a more formal deﬁ nition 
of  object oriented 
 will prove more meaningful. Coad and Yourdon [Coa91] deﬁ
 ne 
the term this way:  Object oriented = objects + classiﬁ cation + inheritance + communication 
 
Three of these concepts have already been introduced. Communication is dis-cussed later in this appendix.   
  C
LASSES AND OBJECTS  
 
A class is an OO concept that encapsulates the data and procedural abstrac-tions required to describe the content and behavior of some real-world entity. 
Data abstractions that describe the class are enclosed by a “wall” of procedural 
abstractions [Tay90] (represented in   
Figure A2.1) that are capable of manipulat-ing the data in some way. In a well-designed class, the only way to reach the at-
tributes (and operate on them) is to go through one of the methods that form the 
“wall” illustrated in the ﬁ gure. Therefore, the class encapsulates data (inside the 
wall) and the processing that manipulates the data (the methods that make up 
the wall). This achieves information hiding (Chapter 12) and reduces the impact 
of side effects associated with change. Since the methods tend to manipulate a 
limited number of attributes, their cohesion is improved, and because communi-
cation occurs only through the methods that make up the “wall,” the class tends 
to be less strongly coupled from other elements of a system.  1 
  
 
1  It should be noted, however, that coupling can become a serious problem in OO systems. It 
arises when classes from various parts of the system are used as the data types of attributes, 
and arguments to methods. Even though access to the objects may only be through procedure 
calls, this does not mean that coupling is necessarily low, just lower than if direct access to the 

internals of objects were allowed.  FIGURE A2.1A schematic representation 
of a class  
 AttributesMethod1()Method3()Method
4()Methodn()Method2()pre22126_app2_891-898.indd   892pre22126_app2_891-898.indd   89213/12/13   6:18 PM13/12/13   6:18 PM