CHAPTER 16  
PATTERN-BASED DESIGN
 365the pattern apply to the entire WebApp, to a single Web page, to a subsystem, or 
an individual WebApp component?). 
  
16.6.1  Design Focus 
 
In earlier chapters we emphasized a design progression that begins by consid-ering architecture, component-level issues, and user interface representations. 
Design focus becomes “narrower” as you move further into design. The problems 
(and solutions) you will encounter when designing an information architecture 
for a WebApp are different from the problems (and solutions) that are encoun-

tered when performing interface design. Therefore, it should come as no sur-

prise that patterns for WebApp design can be developed for different levels of 

design focus, so that you can address the unique problems (and related solutions) 
that are encountered at each level. WebApp patterns can be categorized using 

the following levels of design focus:  
 
 
•   
Information architecture patterns 
 
 
 relate to the overall structure of the information space, and the ways in which users will interact with the 
information.   
 
 
•   
Navigation patterns 
 deﬁ ne navigation link structures, such as hierarchies, 
rings, tours, and so on.   
 
 
•   
Interaction patterns 
 address how the interface informs the user of the consequences of a speciﬁ c action. 
  
 
 
•   
Presentation patterns 
 address how to organize user interface control functions for better usability, how to show the relationship between an in-

terface action and the content objects it affects, and how to establish effec-
tive content hierarchies.   
 
 
•   
Functional patterns 
 deﬁ ne the workﬂ
 ows, behaviors, processing, commu-
nications, and other algorithmic elements within a WebApp. 
 
 
  In most cases, it would be fruitless to explore the collection of  information ar-
chitecture patterns 
 when a problem in interaction design is encountered. You 
would examine  interaction patterns, 
 because that is the design focus that is rele-
vant to the work being performed.   
 
16.6.2  Design Granularity 
 
When a problem involves “big picture” issues, you should attempt to develop solutions (and use relevant patterns) that focus on the big picture. Conversely, 

when the focus is very narrow (e.g., uniquely selecting one item from a small set 
of ﬁ ve or fewer items), the solution (and the corresponding pattern) is targeted 
quite narrowly. In terms of the level of granularity, WebApp patterns follow the 

same levels of abstraction that were discussed earlier in this chapter. 
pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   365pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   36516/12/13   6:22 PM16/12/13   6:22 PM