CHAPTER 32  
PROCESS AND PROJECT METRICS 707 
 
 
•  Don’t obsess on a single metric to the exclusion of other important metrics.  
 
 
 
 
 
   
As an organization becomes more comfortable with the collection and use of 
process metrics, the derivation of simple indicators gives way to a more rig-
orous approach called  statistical software process improvement
 
 (SSPI). In es-
sence, SSPI uses software failure analysis to collect information about all errors 

and defects  2 
 
 encountered as an application, system, or product is developed 
and used. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
32.1.2   
Project Metrics 
 
Unlike software process metrics that are used for strategic purposes, software project measures are tactical. That is, project metrics and the indicators derived 
from them are used by a project manager and a software team to adapt project 
work ﬂ ow and technical activities. 
 The ﬁ rst application of project metrics on most software projects occurs 
during estimation. Metrics collected from past projects are used as a basis from 
which effort and time estimates are made for current software work. As a project 
proceeds, measures of effort and calendar time expended are compared to orig-
inal estimates (and the project schedule). The project manager uses these data 
to monitor and control progress.  As technical work commences, other project metrics begin to have signiﬁ -cance. Production rates represented in terms of models created, review hours, 
function points, and delivered source lines are measured. In addition, errors 
uncovered during each software engineering task are tracked. As the software 
evolves from requirements into design, technical metrics (Chapter 30) are col-
lected to assess design quality and to provide indicators that will inﬂ uence the 
approach taken to code generation and testing.  
 
 
   
The intent of project metrics is twofold. First, these metrics are used to mini-mize the development schedule by making the adjustments necessary to avoid 
delays and mitigate potential problems and risks. Second, project metrics are 
used to assess product quality on an ongoing basis and, when necessary, modify 

the technical approach to improve quality. 
 As quality improves, defects are minimized, and as the defect count goes down, the amount of rework required during the project is also reduced. This 
leads to a reduction in overall project cost.  
 
 
  How should 
we use metrics during the 
project itself? ?  
2  In this book, an  
error 
 
is deﬁ ned as some ﬂ
 aw in a software engineering work product that 
is uncovered  before
 
 the software is delivered to the end user. A  
defect  
is a ﬂ aw that is 
uncovered  after 
 delivery to the end user. It should be noted that others do not make this 
distinction.  
pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   707pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   70713/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM