CHAPTER 17  
WEBAPP DESIGN 379supplementary media (e.g., audio, video, animation); and all other aesthetic ele-ments of an application.  A comprehensive discussion of graphic design issues for WebApps is beyond 
the scope of this book. You can obtain design tips and guidelines from many 

websites that are dedicated to the subject (e.g.,   
 
www.graphic-design.com 
 
,  www.webdesignfromscratch.com 
,   
www.wpdfd.com 
 
) or from one or more print re-sources (e.g., [Bea11], [McN10], [Lup08], and [Roc06]).  
 
 
  
 
Well-Designed Websites 
 
Sometimes, the best way to understand good WebApp design is to look at a few exam-
ples. In his article “The Top Twenty Web Design Tips,” 

Marcelle Toor ( 
 
www.graphic-design.com/Web/
feature/tips.html  
) suggests the following websites as examples of good graphic design:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.marcelletoordesigns.com/ 
 
—ILR Website Design is a cutting-edge resource for clients 

developing their websites and other Internet ventures. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.workbook.com 
 
—this site showcases work by illustrators and designers    
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.pbs.org/riverofsong 
 
—a television series for public TV and radio about American music    
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.RKDINC.com 
 
—a design ﬁ rm with online 
portfolio and good design tips 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.creativehotlist.com/ 
 
—a good source 
for well-designed sites developed by ad agencies, 

graphics arts ﬁ
 rms, and other communications specialists 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.btdnyc.com 
 
—a design ﬁ rm headed by Beth 
Toudreau 
 
 
   
INFO  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 17.6  
CONTENT DESIGN  
 
Content design focuses on two different design tasks, each addressed by individ-uals with different skill sets. First, you should develop a design representation 
for content objects and the mechanisms required to establish their relationship 
to one another. Second, the information within a speciﬁ
 c content object is cre-
ated. The latter task may be conducted by copywriters, graphic designers, and 
others who generate the content to be used within a WebApp. 
  
17.6.1  Content Objects 
 
In the context of WebApp design, a content object is more closely aligned with a data 
object for traditional software. A  content object 
 has attributes that include content-
speciﬁ c information (normally deﬁ
 ned during WebApp requirements modeling) 
and implementation-speciﬁ c attributes that are speciﬁ
 ed as part of design. 
  As an example, consider an analysis class,  ProductComponent, 
 developed 
for the  SafeHome 
 e-commerce system 
. 
 The analysis class attribute,  
descrip-tion 
, is represented as a design class named  CompDescription 
 composed of 
ﬁ ve content objects:  
MarketingDescription, Photograph, TechDescription, 
Schematic, 
 and 
 Video
 
 shown as shaded objects noted in  
Figure 17.3 . Informa-tion contained within the content object is noted as attributes. For example, 
  uote:  “Good designers 
can create 
normalcy out 
of chaos; they 
can clearly 
communicate 
ideas through 
the organizing 
and manipulating 
of words and 
pictures.”  Jeffery Veen 
pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   379pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   37913/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM