444 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 9.
   
Conduct meaningful training for all reviewers.
 
 To be effective all re-
view participants should receive some formal training. The training 

should stress both process-related issues and the human psychological 

side of reviews. Freedman and Weinberg [Fre90] estimate a one-month 

learning curve for every 20 people who are to participate effectively in 

reviews. 
  
 
 
 10.
   
Review your early reviews.
 
 Debrieﬁ ng can be beneﬁ
 cial in uncovering 
problems with the review process itself. The very ﬁ rst product to be 
reviewed should be the review guidelines themselves.  
 
  Because many variables (e.g., number of participants, type of work products, timing and length, speciﬁ c review approach) have an impact on a successful re-
view, a software organization should experiment to determine what approach 

works best in a local context.   
 
 
20.6.4   
Sample-Driven Reviews  
In an ideal setting, every software-engineering work product would undergo a formal technical review. In the real word of software projects, resources are lim-

ited and time is short. As a consequence, reviews are often skipped, even though 
their value as a quality control mechanism is recognized.  Thelin and his colleagues [The01] suggest a sample-driven review process in which samples of all software engineering work products are inspected to deter-

mine which work products are most error prone. Full FTR resources are then fo-
cused only on those work products that are likely (based on data collected during 
sampling) to be error prone.  
 
 
   
To be effective, the sample-driven review process must attempt to quantify 
those work products that are primary targets for full FTRs. To accomplish this, 

the following steps are suggested [The01]:  
 
 
 1.
  Inspect a fraction  ai 
 of each software work product  i. 
 Record the number of faults  fi 
 found within  ai 
.   
 
  2.  Develop a gross estimate of the number of faults within work product  i 
 by multiplying  fi 
 by 1/ ai 
.   
 
 
 3.
  Sort the work products in descending order according to the gross esti-mate of the number of faults in each.   
 
 
 4.
  Focus available review resources on those work products that have the highest estimated number of faults.  
 
  The fraction of the work product that is sampled must be representative of the work product as a whole and large enough to be meaningful to the reviewers who 
do the sampling. As  ai 
 increases, the likelihood that the sample is a valid repre-
sentation of the work product also increases. However, the resources required to 
  
 
 uote:  “It is one of the 
most beautiful 
compensations of 
life, that no man 
can sincerely try 

to help another 
without helping 
himself.”  Ralph Waldo 
Emerson    Reviews take time, but 
it’s time well spent. 

However, if time is 

short and you have no 

other option, do not 
dispense with reviews. 
Rather, use 

sample-driven reviews. pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   444pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   44413/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM