CHAPTER 1  
THE NATURE OF SOFTWARE
 3entertainment, ofﬁ . the list is almost endless. And if you believe the 
law of unintended consequences, there are many effects that we cannot yet predict. 
 No one could predict that millions of computer programs would have to be corrected, adapted, and enhanced as time passed. The burden of performing 
these “maintenance” activities would absorb more people and more resources 
than all work applied to the creation of new software.  As software’s importance has grown, the software community has continually 
attempted to develop technologies that will make it easier, faster, and less ex-

pensive to build and maintain high-quality computer programs. Some of these 
technologies are targeted at a speciﬁ c application domain (e.g., website design 
and implementation); others focus on a technology domain (e.g., object-oriented 
systems or aspect-oriented programming); and still others are broad-based (e.g., 
operating systems such as Linux). However, we have yet to develop a software 

technology that does it all, and the likelihood of one arising in the future is small. 
And yet, people bet their jobs, their comforts, their safety, their entertainment, 

their decisions, and their very lives on computer software. It better be right.  This book presents a framework that can be used by those who build computer software—people who must get it right. The framework encompasses a process, 
a set of methods, and an array of tools that we call  software engineering.
 
  
 
 1.1 T
HE   
NATURE
 OF SOFTWARE
    
 
Today, software takes on a dual role. It is a product, and at the same time, the 
vehicle for delivering a product. As a product, it delivers the computing potential 
embodied by computer hardware or more broadly, by a network of computers 

that are accessible by local hardware. Whether it resides within a mobile phone, 
a hand-held tablet, on the desktop, or within a mainframe computer, software 

is an information transformer—producing, managing, acquiring, modifying, dis-
playing, or transmitting information that can be as simple as a single bit or as 
complex as a multimedia presentation derived from data acquired from dozens 
of independent sources. As the vehicle used to deliver the product, software acts 
as the basis for the control of the computer (operating systems), the communica-
tion of information (networks), and the creation and control of other programs 
(software tools and environments).   
 
 
Software delivers the most important product of our time— information. 
 It 
transforms personal data (e.g., an individual’s ﬁ
 nancial transactions) so that the 
data can be more useful in a local context; it manages business information to 
enhance competitiveness; it provides a gateway to worldwide information net-
works (e.g., the Internet), and provides the means for acquiring information in 
all of its forms. It also provides a vehicle that can threaten personal privacy and a 
gateway that enables those with malicious intent to commit criminal acts.    Software is both a 
product and a vehicle 
that delivers a product. pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   3pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   313/12/13   10:00 PM13/12/13   10:00 PM