APPENDIX 3  
FORMAL METHODS 905 where declarations identify the variables that comprise the system state and the 
invariant imposes constraints on the manner in which the state can evolve. A 
summary of Z language notation is presented in   Table A3.2. 
TABLE A3.2  
SUMMARY OF Z NOTATION
Z notation is based on typed set theory and first-order logic. Z provides a construct, called a schema, to describe a 

specification’s state space and operations. A schema groups variable declarations with a list of predicates that constrain the 

possible value of a variable. In Z, the schema X is defined by the form 

 X  declarations   predicates Global functions and constants are defined by the form

  declarations   predicates The declaration gives the type of the function or constant, while the predicate gives it value. Only an abbreviated set of 
Z symbols is presented in this table. 
Sets:
S : PXS is declared as a set of Xs.X [ Sx is a member of S.x ñ Sx is not a member of S. S # TS is a subset of T: Every member of 
S is also in T.S ¿ TThe union of S and T: It contains every member of 
S or T or both. S š TThe intersection of S and T: It contains every member of both 
S and T.S \ TThe difference of 
S and T: It contains every member of 
S except those also in T. [Empty set: It contains no members. {x}Singleton set: It contains just x. 

NThe set of natural numbers 0, 1, 2, …. S : F XS is declared as a finite set of Xs. max (S)  The maximum of the nonempty set of numbers S.
Functions:
f:X  Yf is declared as a partial injection from 
X to Y.dom fThe domain of f: the set of values x for which f(x) is defined. ran fThe range of f: the set of values taken by f(x) as x varies over the domain of f. f ! {x ¡ y}A function that agrees with 
f except that x is mapped to y. {x} v fA function like f, except that x is removed from its domain. Logic:
P ` QP and Q: It is true if both P and Q are true. P  QP implies Q: It is true if either Q is true or P is false. uS9 5 u SNo components of schema S change in an operation.