CHAPTER 26  
TESTING MOBILEAPPS 579travels between your server and the test client. Some proxies may strip vital information from http headers your application needs to provide functionality 
or device adaptation. Network signal strength can be an issue. Emulators often 
cannot emulate the effects and timing of network services, and you may not see 
problems that users will have when the MobileApp runs on an actual device.  A remote mobile device is a useful piece of test equipment that can be used to 
overcome some of the limitations of using emulators. A  remote mobile device
 
 is a 
physical mobile handset that is mounted in a box with a remote control unit and 

remote antenna. The remote control unit is connected to the device screen and 

keyboard control circuits. When connected to the Internet, this solution allows a 

user on a local PC or Web client to press buttons and collect data on what is hap-

pening on the remote device. Some remote devices have the ability to record test 

cases for subsequent replay to assist the process of automating regression testing. 
 Last, it is important to monitor power consumption speciﬁ cally associated 
with the use of the MobileApp on a mobile device. Transmitting information from 

mobile devices consumes more power than monitoring a network for a signal. 
Processing streaming media consumes more power than loading a Web page or 

sending a text message. Assessing power consumption accurately must be done 
in real time on the actual device and in the wild.   
 
 
 
 26.6  
TESTING TOOLS AND ENVIRONMENTS  
 
In Section 26.3.2 we discussed the reasons for automating some aspects of Mo-bileApp testing in order to reduce testing time and improve the quality and cov-
erage of the testing process. Likewise, we discussed the importance of testing in 
the production environment in Section 26.2.5. There are times, however, when 

manual testing is required, but even in those cases, tools can be used to monitor 
the behavior of MobileApps and users on devices across networks.  Khode [Kho12b] suggests several criteria to use when selecting mobile test automation tools. These criteria might also be applicable to mobile testing tools 
in general.   
 
 
•   
Object identiﬁ cation
 
—The tool can recognize device objects using a vari-ety of methods (e.g., object ID, image processing, text recognition, HTML5/
DOM objects).   
 
 
•   
Security 
—The tool should not require the use of an unprotected device connected to the public Internet.   
 
 
•   
Devices 
—The tool makes use of actual user devices without requiring the use of special developer modes.   
 
 
•   
Functionality 
—All device functionality is supported including multitouch gestures, virtual keyboard input, incoming calls and text messaging, alert 
processing, and others.  What criteria 
should I 
use to select 

automation tools 

for mobile testing??pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   579pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   57913/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM