38 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
ensure that it meets a set of basic process criteria that have been shown to be essential for a successful software engineering.  4 
 
 
   
 
 
 
A number of different approaches to software process assessment and im-provement have been proposed over the past few decades:  
 
 
 
 
Standard CMMI Assessment Method for Process Improvement (SCAMPI) 
—provides a ﬁ ve-step process assessment model that incorporates ﬁ
 ve phases: 
initiating, diagnosing, establishing, acting, and learning. The SCAMPI method 
uses the SEI CMMI as the basis for assessment [SEI00].    
 
 
 
CMM-Based Appraisal for Internal Process Improvement (CBA IPI) 
—provides a diagnostic technique for assessing the relative maturity of a software 
organization; uses the SEI CMM as the basis for the assessment [Dun01].    
 
 
 
SPICE (ISO/IEC15504) 
—a standard that deﬁ nes a set of requirements for 
software process assessment. The intent of the standard is to assist organi-
zations in developing an objective evaluation of the efﬁ cacy of any deﬁ
 ned 
 software process [ISO08].    
 
 
 
ISO 9001:2000 for Software— 
a generic standard that applies to any organiza-tion that wants to improve the overall quality of the products, systems, or ser-

vices that it provides. Therefore, the standard is directly applicable to software 
organizations and companies [Ant06].  
 
   
 
 
A more detailed discussion of software assessment and process improvement methods is presented in Chapter 37.   
 
 
 
 
 3.6 S
UMMARY  
A generic process model for software engineering encompasses a set of frame-work and umbrella activities, actions, and work tasks. Each of a variety of pro-
cess models can be described by a different process ﬂ ow—a description of how 
the framework activities, actions, and tasks are organized sequentially and 
chronologically. Process patterns can be used to solve common problems that 

are encountered as part of the software process.   
   
PROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
3.1.  In the introduction to this chapter Baetjer notes: “The process provides interaction be-tween users and designers, between users and evolving tools, and between designers and 
evolving tools [technology].” List ﬁ ve questions that (1) designers should ask users, (2) users 
should ask designers, (3) users should ask themselves about the software product that is to 
be built, (4) designers should ask themselves about the software product that is to be built 
and the process that will be used to build it.     Assessment attempts to 
understand the current 

state of the software 
process with the intent 
of  improving it. 
  uote:  “Software 
organizations have 

exhibited signiﬁ cant 

shortcomings in 

their ability to 

capitalize on the 

experiences gained 

from completed 

projects.” 
 NASA 
  
4  The SEI’s CMMI [CMM07] describes the characteristics of a software process and the criteria 
for a successful process in voluminous detail. pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   38pre22126_ch03_029-039.indd   3813/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM