CHAPTER 22  
SOFTWARE TESTING STRATEGIES
 471 
The last high-order testing step falls outside the boundary of software engi-neering and into the broader context of computer system engineering. Software, 
once validated, must be combined with other system elements (e.g., hardware, 
people, databases).  System testing 
 veriﬁ
 es that all elements mesh properly and 
that overall system function/performance is achieved.  
 
 
  
FIGURE 22.2 
Software test-
ing stepsUnittestCodeDesignRequirementsTesting
ﬁdirectionﬂIntegration testHigh-ordertests  
 
Preparing for Testing    
 
Preparing for Testing 
  
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce, as 
component-level design continues and construction of certain components begins. 
  
The players:  Doug Miller, software engineering man-
ager, Vinod, Jamie, Ed, and Shakira—members of the 

 SafeHome 
 software engineering team.   
The conversation:    
Doug:  It seems to me that we haven’t spent enough 
time talking about testing.   
Vinod:  True, but we’ve all been just a little busy. And 

more than thinking.   
Doug (smiling):  
we’ve still got to think down the line.   
Shakira:  I like the idea of designing unit tests before I 
begin coding any of my components, so that’s what I’ve 

been trying to do. I have a pretty big ﬁ
 le of tests to run 
once code for my components is complete.   
Doug:  That’s an Extreme Programming [an agile soft-
ware development process, see Chapter 5] concept, no?   
Ed:  It is. Even though we’re not using Extreme Program-
ming per se, we decided that it’d be a good idea to 
design unit tests before we build the component—the 
design gives us all of the information we need. 
  
Jamie:  I’ve been doing the same thing. 
  
Vinod:  And I’ve taken on the role of the integrator, so 
every time one of the guys passes a component to me, 

I’ll integrate it and run a series of regression tests on the 

partially integrated program. I’ve been working to design 

a set of appropriate tests for each function in the system. 
  
Doug (to Vinod):  How often will you run the tests? 
  
Vinod:  Ever

plan to deliver is integrated.   
Doug:  You guys are way ahead of me! 
  
Vinod (laughing):  Anticipation is everything in the 
software biz, Boss.   
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch22_466-495.indd   471pre22126_ch22_466-495.indd   47113/12/13   6:14 PM13/12/13   6:14 PM