CHAPTER 26  
TESTING MOBILEAPPS 571that is seen only in the development of real-time systems. Security testing has to 
take the loss of a physical device into account as well as the fact that MobileApps 

often run directly on the mobile device hardware exposing personal data to theft. 

MobileApps are often designed to be used by people with less technical knowl-
edge than the typical Web user precipitating the need for more extensive testing 

of the user experience (Section 26.3). Agile development process models (Chap-
 
  
 
 
26.2.2   
The Need for Automation  
 
A MobileApp tester often encounters many conﬁ guration variants (devices, op-
erating systems, and mobile networks) that may need to be included to ensure 
that a MobileApp is both functional and context aware. Because it is important to 
test a MobileApp efﬁ ciently and completely, automated testing can be useful for 
conﬁ guration testing (Section 25.7) or regression testing (Section 22.3). It should 
be noted, however, that it may not be possible to automate all parts of MobileApp 

testing (e.g., user interactions found in a handheld video game).  Automated testing tools can improve team morale when testers would other-
wise be forced to process a large number of repetitive test cases mechanically. 

The availability of automated test tools can encourage earlier and more frequent 
testing, allowing the early discovery of MobileApp defects. An agile development 
process (Chapter 5) mandates the use of daily build cycles that require regres-
sion testing to ensure that changes have not produced unintended side effects.  Mobile Labs, Inc. [Mob11] has proposed an approach to automating Mobile-App testing that encompasses the following elements:   
 
 
 
 
 
Feasibility analysis. 
 Determines which tests and test cases have the greatest return on investment (ROI) if automated. The focus should be on automating re-
peatable and frequently used test cases. The goal is to try to automate 50 to 
  
Proof of concept. 
 Validates the value of test automation. To accomplish this, 
a limited number of manual test scripts are automated to determine the ROI of 
the effort. The test team must determine scalability to the other scripts and the 
degree of reuse in subsequent testing cycles.   
Best practice test framework. 
 Provides a methodology speciﬁ c to mobile 
applications that serves as the foundation for the testing process. Frameworks 
deﬁ ne the rules for implementation and testing of the MobileApp and are de-
veloped for each mobile platform and tailored to the organization’s application 

suite.   
Customized testing tools. 
 Customizes testing tools to each mobile platform (and the application being tested) by leveraging advanced scripting techniques.   
Testing under real-world conditions.
 
 Conﬁ rms how the application will run 
on an actual device outside the testing laboratory. Testing on actual devices 
  
 
 uote:  “Today there 
are hundreds of 
millions of mobile 
devices, but you do 
have to know a bit 
about what each 
device is capable 
of doing in order 
to approach it as a 
developer.” 
 John Fowler 
 What are 

the most important 
elements of 
automated mobile 
testing? ?pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   571pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   57113/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM