CHAPTER 1  
THE NATURE OF SOFTWARE
 9 
 
 
 
 
 1.2 T
HE CHANGING NATURE
 OF SOFTWARE
  
 
Four broad categories of software are evolving to dominate the industry. And yet, 
these categories were in their infancy little more than a decade ago.   
1.2.1  WebApps 
 
In the early days of the World Wide Web (circa 1990 to 1995),  
websites 
 consisted of 
little more than a set of linked hypertext ﬁ les that presented information using 
text and limited graphics. As time passed, the augmentation of HTML by devel-
opment tools (e.g., XML, Java) enabled Web engineers to provide computing ca-

pability along with informational content.  Web-based systems and applications
 
 
 5 
 
 (we refer to these collectively as  WebApps
 
) were born.   
Today, WebApps have evolved into sophisticated computing tools that not only 
provide stand-alone function to the end user, but also have been integrated with 

corporate databases and business applications.  A decade ago, WebApps “involve[d] a mixture between print publishing and 
software development, between marketing and computing, between inter-

nal communications and external relations, and between art and technology.” 

[Pow98] But today, they provide full computing potential in many of the applica-

tion categories noted in Section 1.1.2.   Over the past decade, Semantic Web technologies (often referred to as Web 
3.0) have evolved into sophisticated corporate and consumer applications that 
encompass “semantic databases [that] provide new functionality that requires 
Web linking, ﬂ
 exible [data] representation, and external access APIs.” [Hen10] 
Sophisticated relational data structures will lead to entirely new WebApps that 

allow access to disparate information in ways never before possible.   
 
1.2.2  Mobile Applications 
 
The term  app 
 has evolved to connote software that has been speciﬁ
 cally de-
signed to reside on a mobile platform (e.g., iOS, Android, or Windows Mobile). In 

most instances, mobile applications encompass a user interface that takes ad-
vantage of the unique interaction mechanisms provided by the mobile platform, 
interoperability with Web-based resources that provide access to a wide array 

of information that is relevant to the app, and local processing capabilities that 
collect, analyze, and format information in a manner that is best suited to the 
mobile platform. In addition, a mobile app provides persistent storage capabili-
ties within the platform.   
5  In the context of this book, the term  Web application
 
 (WebApp) encompasses everything from a 
simple Web page that might help a consumer compute an automobile lease payment to a com-

prehensive website that provides complete travel services for businesspeople and vacationers. 

Included within this category are complete websites, specialized functionality within websites, 

and information processing applications that reside on the Internet or on an intranet or extranet. 
  uote:“By the time we see any sort 
of stabilization, 
the Web will 

have turned 
into something 
completely 
different.”  Louis Monier 
pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   9pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   913/12/13   10:00 PM13/12/13   10:00 PM