CHAPTER 13  
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN 275 
The Software Engineering Institute (SEI) has developed an  architecture trade-
off analysis method 
 (ATAM) [Kaz98] that establishes an iterative evaluation pro-
cess for software architectures. The design analysis activities that follow are 
performed iteratively:   
 
 1.   
Collect scenarios. 
 A set of use cases ( Chapters 8  and  9 ) is developed to represent the system from the user’s point of view. 
    
 2.   
Elicit requirements, constraints, and environment description.
 
 This infor-
mation is required as part of requirements engineering and is used to be 
certain that all stakeholder concerns have been addressed.     
 3.   
Describe the architectural styles/patterns that have been chosen to ad-
dress the scenarios and requirements.
 
 The architectural style(s) should be described using one of the following architectural views:  
 
  •   
 
Module view 
 for analysis of work assignments with components and the degree to which information hiding has been achieved.    
 •   
Process view
 
 for analysis of system performance.    
 •   
 
Data ﬂ ow view
 
 for analysis of the degree to which the architecture meets functional requirements.  
 
    
 4.   
Evaluate quality attributes by considering each attribute in isolation. 
 The number of quality attributes chosen for analysis is a function of the time 
available for review and the degree to which quality attributes are rel-
evant to the system at hand. Quality attributes for architectural design 
assessment include reliability, performance, security, maintainability, 

 ﬂ exibility, testability, portability, reusability, and interoperability. 
    
 5.   
Identify the sensitivity of quality attributes to various architectural attributes 
for a speciﬁ c architectural style.
 
 This can be accomplished by making small 
changes in the architecture and determining how sensitive a quality attri-
bute, say performance, is to the change. Any attributes that are signiﬁ cantly 
affected by variation in the architecture are termed  sensitivity points.  
    
 6.   
Critique candidate architectures (developed in step 3) using the sensitivity 
analysis conducted in step 5. 
 The SEI describes this approach in the fol-lowing manner [Kaz98]:  
 
 
 
 
 
Once the architectural sensitivity points have been determined, ﬁ nding trade-off 
points is simply the identiﬁ cation of architectural elements to which multiple at-
tributes are sensitive. For example, the performance of a client-server architec-
ture might be highly sensitive to the number of servers (performance increases, 
. The number of serv-

ers, then, is a trade-off point with respect to this architecture.   
 
 
 
 
These six steps represent the ﬁ rst ATAM iteration. Based on the results of 
5 and 6, some architecture alternatives may be eliminated, one or more of 
pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   275pre22126_ch13_252-284.indd   27513/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM