442 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTfamiliar with the work. Concurrently, the review leader also reviews the product 
and establishes an agenda for the review meeting, which is typically scheduled 
for the next day. 
  
 
 
 
 
The review meeting is attended by the review leader, all reviewers, and the 
producer. One of the reviewers takes on the role of a  
recorder,
 
 that is, the indi-
vidual who records (in writing) all important issues raised during the review. The 

FTR begins with an introduction of the agenda and a brief introduction by the 
producer. The producer then proceeds to “walk through” the work product, ex-

plaining the material, while reviewers raise issues based on their advance prepa-
ration. When valid problems or errors are discovered, the recorder notes each.  At the end of the review, all attendees of the FTR must decide whether to: 
(1) accept the product without further modiﬁ cation, (2) reject the product due to 
severe errors (once corrected, another review must be performed), or (3) accept 
the product provisionally (minor errors have been encountered and must be cor-

rected, but no additional review will be required). After the decision is made, all 
FTR attendees complete a sign-off, indicating their participation in the review 
and their concurrence with the review team’s ﬁ
 ndings. 
 
 
 
 
20.6.2   Review Reporting and Record Keeping 
 
During the FTR, a reviewer (the recorder) actively records all issues that have been raised. These are summarized at the end of the review meeting, and a  re-
view issues list 
 is produced. In addition, a  
formal technical review summary re-
port 
 is completed. A review summary report answers three questions: 
 
 
  1.  What was reviewed?   
 
 
 2.
  Who reviewed it?   
 
 
 3.
  What were the ﬁ ndings and conclusions? 
 
 
  The review summary report is a single-page form (with possible attachments). It becomes part of the project historical record and may be distributed to the 
project leader and other interested parties.  The review issues list serves two purposes: (1) to identify problem areas within 
the product and (2) to serve as an action item checklist that guides the producer as 

corrections are made. An issues list is normally attached to the summary report. 
 You should establish a follow-up procedure to ensure that items on the issues 
list have been properly corrected. Unless this is done, it is possible that issues 
raised can “fall between the cracks.” One approach is to assign the responsibility 
for follow-up to the review leader. 
  
 
 
20.6.3   
Review Guidelines  
 
 
   
Guidelines for conducting formal technical reviews must be established in ad-vance, distributed to all reviewers, agreed upon, and then followed. A review    In some situations, it’s 
a good idea to have 
someone other than 
the producer walk 
through the product 
undergoing review. 

This leads to a literal 
interpretation of the 
work product and bet-
ter error recognition. 
pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   442pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   44213/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM