CHAPTER 26  
TESTING MOBILEAPPS 569connectivity to the external system to carry out end-to-end testing. MobileApp testing tools are discussed in greater detail in Section 26.6.   
 
 
•   
Use the Weighted Device Platform Matrix method to identify the most criti-
cal hardware/platform combination to test.
 
 This method is very useful  especially when hardware/platform combinations are numerous and time to test is low 
  
 
 
•   
Check the end-to-end functional ﬂ ow in all possible platforms at least 
once. 
 When Web services are involved, it is difﬁ
 cult to trace the actual net-
work path required to deliver a MobileApp function without performance 
tools. Tool use is discussed in Section 26.6. 
  
 
 
•   
Conduct performance testing, GUI testing, and compatibility testing using actual devices. 
 Even though these tests can be done using emulators, testing with actual devices is recommended. User interaction testing 
is discussed in Section 26.3 and performance issues are discussed in 
  
 
 
•   
Measure performance only in realistic conditions of wireless trafﬁ
 c and 
user load. 
 Real-time testing issues for MobileApps are discussed in Sec-tion 26.5.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 26.2  
THE TESTING STRATEGIES
  
 
Technology alone is not sufﬁ
 cient to guarantee commercial success of a Mo-
bileApp. Users abandon MobileApps quickly if they do not work well or fail to 

meet expectations. It is important to recall that testing has two important goals: 

to create test cases that uncover defects early in the development cycle and 

(2) to verify the presence of important quality attributes. The quality attributes 

for MobileApps are based on those set forth in ISO 9126 [Spr04] and encompass 

functionality, reliability, usability, efﬁ
 ciency, maintainability, and portability 
 
 Developing a MobileApp testing strategy requires an understanding of both software testing and the challenges that make mobile devices and their net-
work infrastructure unique [Kho12a]. In addition to a thorough knowledge of 
conventional software testing approaches (Chapters 22 and 23), a MobileApp 
tester should have a good understanding of telecommunications principles and 
an awareness of the differences and capabilities of mobile operating systems 
platforms. This basic knowledge must be complemented with a thorough under-

standing of the different types of mobile testing (e.g., MobileApp testing, mobile 
handset testing, mobile website testing), the use of simulators, test automation 
tools, and remote data access services (RDA). Each of these topics is discussed 
later in this chapter. 
  uote:  ”I want to be 
buried with a 
mobile phone, just 
in case I’m not 
dead“  Amanda Holden 
pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   569pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   56913/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM