98 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
But from the human perspective, the cloud offers far more beneﬁ ts than risks 
for software engineers. Dana Gardner [Gar09] summarizes the beneﬁ ts (with a 
warning):  
Anything having to do with the social or collaboration aspects of software develop-ment lent themselves well to the cloud. Project management, scheduling, task lists, 
requirements, and defect management all suit themselves well as these are at core 
group functions where communications is essential to keeping projects in sync and 
all members of the team – wherever they are located — on literally the same page. 
Of course, there is a huge caveat here – if your company designs embedded software 
that goes into products, it is not a good candidate for the cloud: imagine getting a hold 
of Apple’s project plans for the next version of the iPhone. 
 
  
As Gardner states, one of the key beneﬁ ts of the cloud is its ability to enhance 
the “social and collaborative aspects of software development.” In the next sec-
tion, you’ll learn a bit more about collaborative tools.   
 
 
 6.8 C
OLLABORATION
 TOOLS  
 
Fillipo Lanubile and his colleagues [Lan10] suggest that the software develop-ment environments (SDEs) of the last century have morphed into   
 
collaborative development environments
 
 (CDEs)  
.  6 
 
 They state:  
 
Tools are essential to collaboration among team members, enabling the facilitation, 
automation, and control of the entire development process. Adequate tool support is 
especially needed in global software engineering because distance aggravates coor-

dination and control problems, directly or indirectly, through its negative effects on 
communication.   
 
 
 
   
Many of the tools used in a CDE are no different from the tools that are used to assist in the software engineering activities discussed in Parts 2, 3, and 4 of this 
book. But a worthwhile CDE also provides a set of services that are speciﬁ cally 
designed to enhance collaborative work [Fok10]. These services include:   
 
 
•  A  namespace 
 that allows a project team to store all work products and other information in a manner that enhances security and privacy, allow-

ing access only to authorized individuals.   
 
 
•  A  calendar 
 for coordinating meeting and other project events.   
 
 
•   
Templates
 
 that enable team members to create work products that have a consistent look and structure.   
 
 
•   
Metrics support 
 that tracks each team member’s contributions in a quanti-
tative manner. 
    What generic 
services 
are found in 
collaborative 
development 
environments? ?  
6  The term  
collaborative development environment
 
 (CDE) was coined by Grady Booch [Boo02]. pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   98pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   9813/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM