vi Roger S. Pressman is an internationally recognized consultant and author in soft-ware engineering. For more than four decades, he has worked as a software engi-
neer, a manager, a professor, an author, a consultant, and an entrepreneur. 
 Dr. Pressman is president of R. S. Pressman & Associates, Inc., a consulting ﬁ rm that specializes in helping companies establish effective software engineer-
ing practices. Over the years he has developed a set of techniques and tools that 
improve software engineering practice. He is also the founder of Teslaccessories, 
LLC, a start-up manufacturing company that specializes in custom products for 
the Tesla Model S electric vehicle.  Dr. Pressman is the author of nine books, including two novels, and many techni-cal and management papers. He has been on the editorial boards of  IEEE Software  
and  The Cutter IT Journal  and was editor of the “Manager” column in  IEEE Software.  
 Dr. Pressman is a well-known speaker, keynoting a number of major industry 
conferences. He has presented tutorials at the International Conference on Soft-
ware Engineering and at many other industry meetings. He has been a member of 

the ACM, IEEE, and Tau Beta Pi, Phi Kappa Phi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Pi Tau Sigma. 

    
    
    
 Bruce R. Maxim has worked as a software engineer, project manager, professor, author, and consultant for more than thirty years. His research interests include 
software engineering, human computer interaction, game design, social media, 
artiﬁ cial intelligence, and computer science education. 
 Dr. Maxim is associate professor of computer and information science at the University of Michigan—Dearborn. He established the GAME Lab in the College 
of Engineering and Computer Science. He has published a number of papers on 
computer algorithm animation, game development, and engineering education. 
He is coauthor of a best-selling introductory computer science text. Dr. Maxim 
has supervised several hundred industry-based software development projects 
as part of his work at UM-Dearborn.  Dr. Maxim’s professional experience includes managing research informa-tion systems at a medical school, directing instructional computing for a medical 
campus, and working as a statistical programmer. Dr. Maxim served as the chief 
technology ofﬁ cer for a game development company. 
 Dr. Maxim was the recipient of several distinguished teaching awards and a 
 distinguished community service award. He is a member of Sigma Xi, Upsilon Pi 

 Epsilon, Pi Mu Epsilon, Association of Computing Machinery, IEEE Computer 

 Society, American Society for Engineering Education, Society of Women  Engineers, 
and International Game Developers Association. 
         A
BOUT THE AUTHORS 