328 PART TWO  
MODELINGcomputer-aided design system for interior designers discussed earlier. By ob-
serving an interior designer at work, you notice that interior design comprises 
a number of major activities: furniture layout (note the use case discussed ear-

lier), fabric and material selection, wall and window coverings selection, pre-
sentation (to the customer), costing, and shopping. Each of these major tasks 
can be elaborated into subtasks. For example, using information contained in 
the use case, furniture layout can be reﬁ ned into the following tasks: (1) draw 
a ﬂ place windows and doors at appro-
priate locations, (3a) use furniture templates to draw scaled furniture outlines 
on the ﬂ oor plan, (3b) use accents templates to draw scaled accents on the ﬂ
 oor 
move furniture outlines and accent outlines to get the best placement, 

label all furniture and accent outlines, (6) draw dimensions to show location, 

draw a perspective-rendering view for the customer. A similar approach 

could be used for each of the other major tasks.  Subtasks 1 to 7 can each be reﬁ ned further. Subtasks 1 to 6 will be performed 
by manipulating information and performing actions within the user interface. 
On the other hand, subtask 7 can be performed automatically in software and 
will result in little direct user interaction.  2 
 
 The design model of the interface 
should accommodate each of these tasks in a way that is consistent with the user 
model (the proﬁ le of a “typical” interior designer) and system perception (what 
the interior designer expects from an automated system).  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Object Elaboration.   
Rather than focusing on the tasks that a user must per-
form, you can examine the use case and other information obtained from the 
user and extract the physical objects that are used by the interior designer. These 

objects can be categorized into classes. Attributes of each class are deﬁ ned, and 
an evaluation of the actions applied to each object provides a list of operations. 
For example, the furniture template might translate into a class called  Furniture 
 with attributes that might include size, shape, location and others. The interior 
designer would  select 
 the object from the  
Furniture 
 class,  
move 
 it to a position on 
the ﬂ oor plan (another object in this context),  
draw 
 the furniture outline, and so 
forth. The tasks  select, move, 
 and 
 draw
 
 are operations. The user interface analysis 
model would not provide a literal implementation for each of these operations. 
However, as the design is elaborated, the details of each operation are deﬁ
 ned. 
 
 
 
Workflow Analysis.   
When a number of different users, each playing different roles, makes use of a user interface, it is sometimes necessary to go beyond task 
analysis and object elaboration and apply  workﬂ ow analysis.
 
 This technique 
 allows you to understand how a work process is completed when several people    Although object 
elaboration is useful, 
it should not be used 
as a stand-alone 
approach. The user’s 

voice  must  be con-
sidered during task 
analysis.   
2  However, this may not be the case. The interior designer might want to specify the perspective 
to be drawn, the scaling, the use of color, and other information. The use case related to draw-

ing perspective renderings would provide the information you need to address this task. pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   328pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32813/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM