148 PART TWO  
MODELINGdeﬁ ne requirements. Each of these work products is reviewed by all people who 
have participated in requirements elicitation.   
 
8.3.5  Agile Requirements Elicitation 
 
 
 
  
 
Within the context of an agile process, requirements are elicited by asking all 
stakeholders to create  user stories 
. Each user story describes a simple system requirement written from the user’s perspective. User stories can be written on 

small note cards, making it easy for developers to select and manage a subset of 
requirements to implement for the next product increment. Proponents claim 
that using note cards written in the user’s own language allows developers to 

shift their focus to communication with stakeholders on the selected require-
ments rather than their own agenda [Mai10a].  Although the agile approach to requirements elicitation is attractive for many software teams, critics argue that a consideration of overall business goals and 
nonfunctional requirements is often lacking. In some cases, rework is required 
to accommodate performance and security issues. In addition, user stories may 
not provide a sufﬁ cient basis for system evolution over time 
 
 
 
 8.3.6  Service-Oriented Methods 
 
Service-oriented development views a system as an aggregation of services. A  service 
 can be “as simple as providing a single function, for example, a request/
response-based mechanism that provides a series of random numbers, or can be 
an aggregation of complex elements, such as the Web service API” [Mic12]. 
 
 
 
   
Requirements elicitation in service-oriented development focuses on the deﬁ nition of services to be rendered by an application. As a metaphor, consider 
the service provided when you visit a ﬁ ne hotel. A doorperson greets guests. A 
valet parks their cars. The desk clerk checks the guests in. A bellhop manages 
the bags. The concierge assists guest with local arrangements. Each contact or 
 touchpoint 
 between a guest and a hotel employee is designed to enhance the 
hotel visit and represents a service offered.  
 
 
   
Most service design methods emphasize understanding the customer, think-
ing creatively, and building solutions quickly [Mai10b]. To achieve these goals, 

requirements elicitation can include ethnographic studies,  
11 
 
 innovation work-
shops, and early low-ﬁ delity prototypes. Techniques for eliciting requirements 
must also acquire information about the brand and the stakeholders’ percep-
tions of it. In addition to studying how the brand is used by customers, analysts 
need strategies to discover and document requirements about the desired quali-
ties of new user experiences. User stories are helpful in this regard.    User stories are the 
way to document 
requirements elicited 
from customers in agile 
process models.  What is a 

 service
  in 
the context of 
service-oriented 

methods? ?   Requirements elicita-

tion for service-oriented 

methods ﬁ nes services 

render by an app. A 
 touchpoint  represents 
an opportunity for the 

user to interact with 
the system to receive a 
desired service. 
  
11  Studying user behavior in the environment where the proposed software product will be used. 
pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   148pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14813/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM