716 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
Similar WebApp metrics can be computed and correlated with project mea-
sures such as effort expended, errors and defects uncovered, and models or doc-
umentation pages produced. As the database grows (after a number of projects 
have been completed), relationships between the WebApp measures and project 

measures will provide indicators that can aid in project estimation.  
 
 
  
 
Project and Process Metrics 
 
 
Objective:  To assist in the deﬁ
 nition, 
collection, evaluation, and reporting of 
software measures and metrics.   
Mechanics:  Each tool varies in its application, but all provide mechanisms for collecting and evaluating data 
that lead to the computation of software metrics.   
Representative Tools:   
7 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Function Point WORKBENCH, 
 developed by Charismatek (  
www.charismatek.com.au 
 
), offers a wide array of FP-oriented metrics. 
 DataDrill, 
 developed by Distributive Software (  
www.distributive.com 
 
), supports automating 
data collection, analysis, chart formatting, report 

generation, and other measurement tasks.   
PSM Insight, 
 developed by Practical Software and Systems Measurement (  
www.psmsc.com 
 
), assists in the creation and subsequent analysis of a project 
measurement database.   
SLIM tool set, 
 developed by QSM (  
www.qsm.com 
 
), provides a comprehensive set of metrics and 
estimation tools.   
SPR tool set, 
 developed by Software Productivity Research (  
www.spr.com 
 
), offers a comprehensive collection of FP-oriented tools.   
TychoMetrics,
 
 developed by Predicate Logic (  
www.predicate.com 
 
), is a tool suite for management metrics collection and reporting. 
  SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
7   Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 32.3  
METRICS FOR SOFTWARE
 QUALITY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The quality of a system, application, or product is only as good as the require-ments that describe the problem, the design that models the solution, the code 
that leads to an executable program, and the tests that exercise the software to 
uncover errors. You can use measurement to assess the quality of the require-

ments and design models, the source code, and the test cases that have been 
created as the software is engineered. To accomplish this real-time assessment, 

you apply product metrics (Chapter 30) to evaluate the quality of software engi-
neering work products in objective, rather than subjective ways.  A project manager must also evaluate quality as the project progresses. Pri-vate metrics collected by individual software engineers are combined to provide 
project-level results. Although many quality measures can be collected, the pri-
mary thrust at the project level is to measure errors and defects. Metrics derived 
from these measures provide an indication of the effectiveness of individual and 
group software quality assurance and control activities.    Software is a complex 
entity. Therefore, errors 

are to be expected 
as work products are 
developed. Process 
metrics are intended to 
improve the software 
process so that errors 

are uncovered in the 
most effective manner. 
pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   716pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   71613/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM