762 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
is difﬁ cult to develop a comprehensive taxonomy of software project types, most 
software organizations encounter the following projects:   
 
 
1.   
Concept development projects
 
 that are initiated to explore some new business concept or application of some new technology. 
  
 
 
 2.
   
New application development 
 projects that are undertaken as a consequence of a speciﬁ c customer request. 
  
 
 
 3.
   
Application enhancement 
 projects that occur when existing software undergoes major modiﬁ cations to function, performance, or interfaces 
that are observable by the end user. 
  
 
 
 4.
   
Application maintenance projects
 
 that correct, adapt, or extend existing software in ways that may not be immediately obvious to the end 
user. 
  
 
 
 5.
   
Reengineering projects
 
 that are undertaken with the intent of rebuilding an existing (legacy) system in whole or in part.  
 
   
 
 
 
 
Even within a single project type, many factors inﬂ uence the task set to be 
chosen. These include [Pre05]: size of the project, number of potential users, 

mission criticality, application longevity, stability of requirements, ease of 

customer/developer communication, maturity of applicable technology, perfor-

mance constraints, embedded and nonembedded characteristics, project staff, 

and reengineering factors. When taken in combination, these factors provide 

an indication of the  degree of rigor
 
 with which the software process should be 
applied. 
  
 
34.3.1   
A Task Set Example 
 
Concept development projects are initiated when the potential for some new tech-nology must be explored. There is no certainty that the technology will be applica-
ble, but a customer (e.g., marketing) believes that potential beneﬁ t exists. Concept 
development projects are approached by applying the following major tasks:  
 
 
 1.1
   
Concept scoping 
 determines the overall scope of the project.   
 
 
 1.2
   
Preliminary concept planning 
 establishes the organization’s ability to 
undertake the work implied by the project scope.   
 
 
 1.3
   
Technology risk assessment
 
 evaluates the risk associated with the technology to be implemented as part of the project scope.   
 
 
 1.4
   
Proof of concept 
 demonstrates the viability of a new technology in the software context.   
 
 
 1.5
   
Concept implementation 
 implements the concept representation in a manner that can be reviewed by a customer and is used for 
“marketing” purposes when a concept must be sold to other customers or 
management.   
WebRef 
 An adaptable process 
model (APM) has been 
developed to assist 
in deﬁ ning task sets 

for various software 
projects. A complete 
description of the 
APM can be found at 
  www.rspa.com/

apm  . 
pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   762pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   76213/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM