374 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Billions of Web pages are available for those in search of information. Even 
well-targeted Web searches result in an avalanche of content. With so many sources 

of information to choose from, how does the user assess the quality (e.g., veracity, ac-

curacy, completeness, timeliness) of the content that is presented within a WebApp? 
  
 
 
 
 
Tillman [Til00] suggests a useful set of criteria for assessing the quality of con-
tent: Can the scope and depth of content be easily determined to ensure that it 
meets the user’s needs? Can the background and authority of the content’s au-

thors be easily identiﬁ ed? Is it possible to determine the currency of the content, 
the last update, and what was updated? Are the content and its location stable 
(i.e., will they remain at the referenced URL)? Is content credible? Is content 
unique? That is, does the WebApp provide some unique beneﬁ
 t to those who use 
it? Is content valuable to the targeted user community? Is content well orga-
nized? Indexed? Easily accessible? These questions represent only a small sam-
pling of the issues that should be addressed as the design of a WebApp evolves. 
  
 
 
 
 17.2  
DESIGN GOALS  
 
In her regular column on Web design, Jean Kaiser [Kai02] suggests a set of design 
goals that are applicable to virtually every WebApp regardless of application 

domain, size, or complexity:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simplicity. 
  Although it may seem old-fashioned, the aphorism “all things 
in moderation” applies to WebApps. There is a tendency among some 

designers to provide the end user with “too much”—exhaustive content, 
extreme visuals, intrusive animation, enormous Web pages, complex navi-

gation, the list is long. Better to strive for moderation and simplicity. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Consistency. 
  This design goal applies to virtually every element of the design 
model. Content should be constructed consistently (e.g., text formatting and 
 What should 
we consider when assessing 
content quality? ?  uote:  “Just because you 
can doesn’t mean 
you should.”  Jean Kaiser 
  
WebApp Design—Quality Checklist 
 
The following checklist, adapted from infor-
mation presented at   
Webreference.com 
 
, provides a set of questions that will help both Web engi-

neers and end users assess overall WebApp quality:
  
 
 
•  Can content and/or function and/or navigation options be tailored to the user’s preferences? 
  
 
 
•  Can content and/or functionality be customized to the bandwidth at which the user communicates?   
 
 
•  Have graphics and other nontext media been used appropriately? Are graphics ﬁ le sizes optimized for 
display efﬁ ciency? 
  
 
 
•  Are tables organized and sized in a manner that 
makes them understandable and displayed efﬁ ciently? 
  
 
 
•  Is HTML optimized to eliminate inefﬁ ciencies? 
  
 
 
•  Is the overall page design easy to read and navigate? 
  
 
 
•  Do all pointers provide links to information that is of 
interest to users?   
 
 
•  Is it likely that most links have persistence on the Web? 
  
 
 
•  Is the WebApp instrumented with site management 
utilities that include tools for usage tracking, link 
testing, local searching, and security?  
 
 
  
INFO pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   374pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   37413/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM