802 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 36.5  
SOFTWARE
 REENGINEERING  
 
The scenario is all too common: An application has served the business needs of a company for 10 or 15 years. During that time it has been corrected, adapted, 
and enhanced many times. People approached this work with the best inten-
tions, but good software engineering practices were always shunted to the side 
(due to the urgency of other matters). Now the application is unstable. It still 
works, but every time a change is attempted, unexpected and serious side effects 
occur. Yet the application must continue to evolve. What to do? 
 Unmaintainable software is not a new problem. In fact, the broadening em-phasis on software reengineering has been spawned by software maintenance 
problems that have been building for almost half a century. 
  
 
36.5.1   
A Software Reengineering Process Model 
 
Reengineering takes time, it costs signiﬁ cant amounts of money, and it absorbs 
resources that might be otherwise occupied on immediate concerns. For all of 
these reasons, reengineering is not accomplished in a few months or even a few 
years. Reengineering of information systems is an activity that will absorb in-
formation technology resources for many years. That’s why every organization 

needs a pragmatic strategy for software reengineering.   
 
 
 
 
A workable strategy is encompassed in a reengineering process model. We’ll 
discuss the model later in this section, but ﬁ rst, some basic principles. 
 Reengineering is a rebuilding activity. To better understand it, consider an 
analogous activity: the rebuilding of a house. Consider the following situation. 
You’ve purchased a house in another state. You’ve never actually seen the prop-

erty, but you acquired it at an amazingly low price, with the warning that it might 

have to be completely rebuilt. How would you proceed?   
 
 
•  Before you can start rebuilding, it would seem reasonable to inspect the house. To determine whether it is in need of rebuilding, you (or a pro-

fessional inspector) would create a list of criteria so that your inspection 
would be systematic.   
 
 
•  Before you tear down and rebuild the entire house, be sure that the struc-ture is weak. If the house is structurally sound, it may be possible to “re-
model” without rebuilding (at much lower cost and in much less time).   
 
 
•  Before you start rebuilding be sure you understand how the original was built. Take a peek behind the walls. Understand the wiring, the plumbing, 

and the structural internals. Even if you trash them all, the insight you’ll 
gain will serve you well when you start construction.   
 
 
•  If you begin to rebuild, use only the most modern, long-lasting materials. This may cost a bit more now, but it will help you to avoid expensive and 

time-consuming maintenance later. 
  
WebRef 
 An excellent source 
of information on 

software reengineering 
can be found at 
  
reengineer .org 
 . 
pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   802pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   80213/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM