CHAPTER 4  
PROCESS MODELS 59 
 
 
 
 
 4.4 P
ERSONAL AND TEAM PROCESS MODELS  
 
The best software process is one that is close to the people who will be doing 
the work. If a software process model has been developed at a corporate or 

organizational level, it can be effective only if it is amenable to signiﬁ cant ad-
aptation to meet the needs of the project team that is actually doing software 

engineering work. In an ideal setting, you would create a process that best ﬁ ts 
your needs, and at the same time, meets the broader needs of the team and the 

organization. Alternatively, the team itself can create its own process, and at 

the same time meet the narrower needs of individuals and the broader needs 

of the organization. Watts Humphrey ([Hum05] and [Hum00]) argues that it is 

possible to create a ”personal software process” and/or a “team software 

process.” Both require hard work, training, and coordination, but both are 

achievable.  17  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
4.4.1 Personal Software Process 
 
  
Every developer uses some process to build computer software. The process may be haphazard or ad hoc; may change on a daily basis; may not be efﬁ cient, 
 effective, or even successful; but a “process” does exist. Watts Humphrey [Hum05] 
suggests that in order to change an ineffective personal process, an individual 
must move through four phases, each requiring training and careful instrumen-
tation. The  Personal Software Process
 
 (PSP) emphasizes personal measurement 
of both the work product that is produced and the resultant quality of the work 
product. In addition PSP makes the practitioner responsible for project planning 
(e.g., estimating and scheduling) and empowers the practitioner to control the 
quality of all software work products that are developed. The PSP model deﬁ nes 
ﬁ ve framework activities:
  
 
 
 
 
Planning. 
 This activity isolates requirements and develops both size and 
resource estimates. In addition, a defect estimate (the number of defects 
projected for the work) is made. All metrics are recorded on worksheets 
or templates. Finally, development tasks are identiﬁ
 ed and a project 
schedule is created.    
 
 
 
High-level design. 
 External speciﬁ
 cations for each component to be 
constructed are developed and a component design is created. Proto-
types are built when uncertainty exists. All issues are recorded and 

tracked. 
  
WebRef 
 A wide array of 
resources for PSP can 
be found at 
  http://www.sei
.cmu.edu/tsp/
tools/academic/  . 
 What 
framework activities are used 
during PSP? ?  
17  It’s worth noting the proponents of agile software development (Chapter 5) also argue that the 
process should remain close to the team. They propose an alternative method for achieving this. 
  uote:  “A person who 
is successful has 
simply formed 
the habit of 
doing things that 
unsuccessful people 
will not do.”  Dexter Yager 
pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   59pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   5913/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM