848 PART FIVE  
ADVANCED TOPICS
community has made progress as it attempts to capture past knowledge and 
reuse proven solutions, a significant percentage of the software that is built 

today continues to be built “from scratch.” Part of the reason for this is a con-
tinuing desire (by stakeholders and software engineering practitioners) for 

“unique solutions.” 
 In the hardware world, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of digital devices use application-speciﬁ c standard products (ASSPs) produced by sili-
con vendors almost exclusively. This “merchant hardware” provides the build-

ing blocks necessary to implement everything from a smartphone to a wearable 
computing device. Increasingly, the same OEMs are using “merchant software”—

software building blocks designed speciﬁ cally for a unique application domain 
[e.g., VoIP devices]. Michael Ward [War07] comments:
  
One advantage of the use of software components is that the OEM can leverage the functionality provided by the software without having to develop in-house expertise 
in the speciﬁ c functions or invest developer time on the effort to implement and vali-
date the components. Other advantages include the ability to acquire and deploy only 
the speciﬁ c set of functionalities that are needed for the system, as well as the ability 
to integrate these components into an already-existing architecture.  
  
In addition to components packaged as merchant software, there is an increas-ing tendency to adopt  software platform solutions
 
 that “incorporate collections of 
related functionalities, typically provided within an integrated software frame-
work” [War07]. A software platform frees an OEM from the work associated with 

developing base functionality and instead allows the OEM to dedicate software 
effort on those features that differentiate its product.   
 
 
38.4.6   
Changing Perceptions of “Value” 
 
During the last quarter of the 20th century, the operative question that business-
people asked when discussing software was: Why does it cost so much? That 
question is rarely asked today and has been replaced by: Why can’t we get it 
(software and/or the software-based product) sooner?  When computer software is considered, the modern perception of value 
is changing from business value (cost and proﬁ tability) to customer values 
that include: speed of delivery, richness of functionality, and overall product 

quality. 
  
 
 
38.4.7   
Open Source 
 
Who owns the software you or your organization uses? Increasingly, the an-
swer is “everyone.” The “open source” movement has been described in the 

following manner [OSO12]: “Open source is a development method for soft-
ware that harnesses the power of distributed peer review and transparency of 

process. The promise of open source is better quality, higher reliability, more 
pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   848pre22126_ch38_839-859.indd   84813/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM