512 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTpreceding section, if a set of objects can be linked by relationships that are symmetric, transitive, and reﬂ exive, an equivalence class is present [Bei95]. An 
equivalence class represents a set of valid or invalid states for input conditions. 
Typically, an input condition is either a speciﬁ
 c numeric value, a range of values, 
a set of related values, or a Boolean condition. Equivalence classes may be de-
ﬁ ned according to the following guidelines: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.
  If an input condition speciﬁ es a range, one valid and two invalid equiva-
lence classes are deﬁ ned. 
  
 
 
 2.
  If an input condition requires a speciﬁ c value, one valid and two invalid 
equivalence classes are deﬁ ned. 
  
 
 
 3.
  If an input condition speciﬁ es a member of a set, one valid and one invalid 
equivalence class are deﬁ ned. 
  
 
 
 4.
  If an input condition is Boolean, one valid and one invalid class are deﬁ ned. 
   
By applying the guidelines for the derivation of equivalence classes, test cases for each input domain data item can be developed and executed. Test cases are 

selected so that the largest number of attributes of an equivalence class are 
exercised at once.   
 
 
 
23.6.3   
Boundary Value Analysis 
 
A greater number of errors occurs at the boundaries of the input domain rather than in the “center.” It is for this reason that  
boundary value analysis 
 (BVA) has 
been developed as a testing technique. Boundary value analysis leads to a selec-
tion of test cases that exercise bounding values.  Boundary value analysis is a test-case design technique that complements equivalence partitioning. Rather than selecting any element of an equivalence 
class, BVA leads to the selection of test cases at the “edges” of the class. Rather 

than focusing solely on input conditions, BVA derives test cases from the output 

domain as well [Mye79].   
 
Guidelines for BVA are similar in many respects to those provided for equiv-
alence partitioning:  
 
 
 1.
  If an input condition speciﬁ es a range bounded by values  
a 
 and  b, 
 test cases should be designed with values  a 
 and  b 
 and just above and just below  a 
 and  b. 
 
  
 
 
 2.
  If an input condition speciﬁ es a number of values, test cases should be de-
veloped that exercise the minimum and maximum numbers. Values just 

above and below minimum and maximum are also tested.   
 
 
 3.
  Apply guidelines 1 and 2 to output conditions. For example, assume that a temperature versus pressure table is required as output from an en-
gineering analysis program. Test cases should be designed to create an 
 How do 
I deﬁ ne 
equivalence 
classes for 
testing? ?  
 
 uote:  “An effective 
way to test code 
is to exercise 
it at its natural 
boundaries.”  Brian Kernighan 
   BVA extends equiva-

lence partitioning by 

focusing on data at 
the “edges” of an 
equivalence class. pre22126_ch23_496-522.indd   512pre22126_ch23_496-522.indd   51213/12/13   6:14 PM13/12/13   6:14 PM