CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 159 
 
 
 
 
 
 8.6 N
EGOTIATING
 REQUIREMENTS  
 
In an ideal requirements engineering context, the inception, elicitation, and elab-oration tasks determine customer requirements in sufﬁ cient detail to proceed to 
subsequent software engineering activities. Unfortunately, this rarely happens. 

In reality, you may have to enter into a  
negotiation 
 with one or more stakehold-
ers. In most cases, stakeholders are asked to balance functionality, performance, 

and other product or system characteristics against cost and time-to-market. 
The intent of this negotiation is to develop a project plan that meets stakeholder 
needs while at the same time reﬂ ecting the real-world constraints (e.g., time, 
people, budget) that have been placed on the software team.  The best negotiations strive for a “win-win” result.  21 
 
 That is, stakeholders win 
by getting the system or product that satisﬁ es the majority of their needs and you 
(as a member of the software team) win by working to realistic and achievable 
budgets and deadlines.   
 
 
 
 
 
Boehm [Boe98] deﬁ nes a set of negotiation activities at the beginning of each 
software process iteration. Rather than a single customer communication activ-
ity, the following activities are deﬁ
 ned:
 
 
 
 
 1.
  Identiﬁ cation of the system or subsystem’s key stakeholders. 
  
 
 
 2.
  Determination of the stakeholders’ “win conditions.”   
 
 
 3.
  Negotiation of the stakeholders’ win conditions to reconcile them into a set of win-win conditions for all concerned (including the software team).    
 
Successful completion of these initial steps achieves a win-win result, which be-comes the key criterion for proceeding to subsequent software engineering activities. 
 
 
 
  
WebRef 
 A brief paper on ne-
gotiation for software 
requirements can be 
downloaded from 
  www.alexander-
egyed.com/
publications/
Software_
Requirements_
Negotiation-
Some_Lessons_
Learned.html  . 
  uote:  “A compromise is 
the art of dividing 
a cake in such a 
way that everyone 

believes he has the 
biggest piece.”  Ludwig Erhard 
  
21  Dozens of books have been written on negotiating skills (e.g., [Fis11], [Lew09], [Rai06]). It is one 
of the more important skills that you can learn. Read one.   
The Art of Negotiation   
The Art of Negotiation  
Learning how to negotiate effectively can serve 
you well throughout your personal and technical 
life. The following guidelines are well worth considering:
  
   
1.   
Recognize that it’s not a competition.
 
 To be suc-
cessful, both parties have to feel they’ve won or 

achieved something. Both will have to compromise.    
 
 2.  
 
Map out a strategy.
 
 Decide what you’d like to achieve, what the other party wants to achieve, 

and how you’ll go about making both happen.    
 
 3.  
 
Listen actively.
 
 Don’t work on formulating your 
response while the other party is talking. Listen to 
her. It’s likely you’ll gain knowledge that will help 
you to better negotiate your position.    
 
 4.  
 
Focus on the other party’s interests.
 
 Don’t take hard 
positions if you want to avoid conﬂ ict. 
   
 
 5.  
 
Don’t let it get personal.
 
 Focus on the problem that needs to be solved.    
 
 6.  
 
Be creative. 
 Don’t be afraid to think out of the box 
if you’re at an impasse.    
 
 7.  
 
Be ready to commit. 
 Once an agreement has been reached, don’t wafﬂ
 e; commit to it and move on. 
 
 
 
  
INFO pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   159pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   15913/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM