CHAPTER 18  
MOBILEAPP DESIGN 397 
 
 
 
18.2.1  MobileApp Quality 
 
In reality, almost every quality dimension and factor discussed in Chapter 19 ap-
plies to MobileApps. However, Andreou [And05] suggests that end-user satisfac-

tion with a MobileApp is dictated by six important quality factors: functionality, 

reliability, usability, efﬁ
 ciency, maintainability, and portability. 
 
 
Jamie:  Not quite. If we took a mobile phone browser 
approach we might be able to reuse a lot of our 

 WebApps. But remember, smartphone screen sizes vary 
and they may or may not all have the same touch capa-
bilities. So at the very least we would have to create a 

mobile website that takes the device features into account. 
  
Ed:  Perhaps we should build the mobile version of the 
website ﬁ rst. 
  
Marketing person:  OK, but a mobile website solu-
tion wasn’t what we had in mind. 
  
Vinod:  Each mobile platform seems to have its own 
unique development environment too.   
Production rep:  Can we restrict MobileApp develop-
ment to only one or two types of smartphones? 
  
Marketing person:  I think that might work. Unless 
I’m mistaken, the smartphone market is dominated by 

two smartphone platforms right now. 
  
Jamie:  There’s also security to worry about. We bet-
ter make sure an outsider can’t hack into the system, 
disarm it, and rob the place or worse. Also a phone 
could get lost or stolen more easily than a laptop.   
Doug:  Very true. 
  
Marketing:  But we still need the same level of secu-

in with a stolen phone.   
Ed:  That’
  
Facilitator (interrupting):  Let’s not worry about 
those details yet. 
 (Doug, serving as the recorder for the meeting, makes 
an appropriate note.)   
Facilitator:  As a starting point, can we identify which 
elements of WebApp security function are needed in the 

MobileApp and which will need to be newly created? 
Then we can decide how many mobile platforms we 

can support and when we can move forward on this 

project.  (The group spends the next 20 minutes reﬁ ning and 
expanding the details of the home security function.)   
 
MobileApp —Quality Checklist  
The following checklist provides a set of ques-tions that will help both software engineers and end users assess overall MobileApp quality:  
 
 
•  Can content and/or function and/or navigation options be tailored to the user’s preferences? 
  
 
 
•  Can content and/or functionality be customized to the bandwidth at which the user communicates? 
Does the app account for weak or lost signals in an 
acceptable manner?   
 
 
•  Can content and/or function and/or navigation options be made context aware according to the 
user’s preferences? 
  
 
 
•  Has adequate consideration been given to the power availability on the target device(s)?   
 
 
•  Have graphics, media (audio, video), and other Web 
or cloud services been used appropriately? 
  
 
 
•  Is the overall page design easy to read and navigate? 
Does the app take screen-size differences into account? 
  
 
 
•  Does the user interface conform to the display and 
interaction standards adopted for the targeted mobile 
device(s)?   
 
 
•  Does the app conform to the reliability, security, and 
privacy expectations of its users?   
 
 
•  What provisions have been made to ensure an app remains current?   
 
 
•  Has the MobileApp been tested in all targeted user environments and for all targeted devices?  
 
   
INFO pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   397pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   39716/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM