CHAPTER 29  
SOFTWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
 633task may or may not be applicable. For example, when a new SCI is created, it must be identiﬁ ed. However, if no changes are requested for the SCI, the change 
control layer does not apply. The SCI is assigned to a speciﬁ
 c version of the soft-
ware (version control mechanisms come into play). A record of the SCI (its name, 
creation date, version designation, etc.) is maintained for conﬁ guration auditing 
purposes and reported to those with a need to know. In the sections that follow, 

we examine each of these SCM process layers in more detail.   
 
29.3.1   
Identiﬁ cation of Objects in the Software Conﬁ
 guration 
 
To control and manage software conﬁ
 guration items, each should be separately 
named and then organized using an object-oriented approach. Two types of ob-

jects can be identiﬁ ed [Cho89]: basic objects and aggregate objects. 
 4 
 
 
 
 A  
basic ob-ject 
 is a unit of information that you create during analysis, design, code, or test. 
For example, a basic object might be a section of a requirements speciﬁ cation, 
part of a design model, source code for a component, or a suite of test cases that 
are used to exercise the code. An  aggregate object
 
 is a collection of basic objects and other aggregate objects. For example, a  DesignSpeciﬁ cation
 
 is an aggregate 
object. Conceptually, it can be viewed as a named (identiﬁ
 ed) list of pointers that 
specify aggregate objects such as  ArchitecturalModel 
 and  
DataModel, 
 and   
basic objects 
 such as  ComponentN 
 and  UMLDiagramN 
.  
 
 
 
Each object has a set of distinct features that identify it uniquely: a name, a de-scription, a list of resources, and a “realization.” The object name is a character 
string that identiﬁ es the object unambiguously. The object description is a list of 
   The interrelationships 
established for 
conﬁ guration objects 

allow you to assess the 
impact of change.  FIGURE 29.4 
Layers of the SCM process
SoftwareVm.nReporting
Version control
Change controlIdentificationConfiguration auditingSCIs  
4  The concept of an aggregate object [Gus89] has been proposed as a mechanism for represent-
ing a complete version of a software conﬁ guration. 
pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   633pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   63313/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM