150 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
Once actors have been identiﬁ ed, use cases can be developed. Jacobson 
[Jac92] suggests a number of questions  12 
 
 that should be answered by a use 
case: 
  
 
 
•  Who is the primary actor, the secondary actor(s)? 
  
 
 
•  What are the actor’s goals? 
  
 
 
•  What preconditions should exist before the story begins?   
 
 
•  What main tasks or functions are performed by the actor?   
 
 
•  What exceptions might be considered as the story is described?   
 
 
•  What variations in the actor’s interaction are possible? 
  
 
 
•  What system information will the actor acquire, produce, or change?   
 
 
•  Will the actor have to inform the system about changes in the external 
environment?   
 
 
•  What information does the actor desire from the system?   
 
 
•  Does the actor wish to be informed about unexpected changes?  
 
 
  Recalling basic  SafeHome 
 requirements, we deﬁ
 ne four actors:  
homeowner 
 (a user),  setup manager 
 (likely the same person as  
homeowner,
 
 but playing a 
different role),  sensors 
 (devices attached to the system), and the  
monitoring and 
response subsystem 
 (the central station that monitors the  
SafeHome 
 home se-
curity function). For the purposes of this example, we consider only the  home-owner 
 actor. The  
homeowner 
 actor interacts with the home security function in 
a number of different ways using either the alarm control panel or a PC. The 

homeowner (1) enters a password to allow all other interactions, (2) inquires 

about the status of a security zone, (3) inquires about the status of a sensor, 

(4) presses the panic button in an emergency, and (5) activates/deactivates the 

security system. 
 Considering the situation in which the homeowner uses the control panel, the basic use case for system activation follows:  13 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  The homeowner observes the  SafeHome 
 control panel ( 
Figure 8.1 ) to determine if the system is ready for input. If the system is not ready, a  
not ready
 
 message is 
displayed on the LCD display, and the homeowner must physically close windows 

or doors so that the  not ready
 
 message disappears. [A  
not ready
 
 message implies 
that a sensor is open; i.e., that a door or window is open.]   What do 
I need to know in order 
to develop an 
effective use 
case? ?  
12  Jacobson’s questions have been extended to provide a more complete view of use case content. 
  
13  Note that this use case differs from the situation in which the system is accessed via the Inter-
net. In this case, interaction occurs via the control panel, not the GUI provided when a PC or 
mobile device is used. pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   150pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   15013/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM