18 CHAPTER 2  
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
of large, complex computer-based systems. The details of the software process will 
be quite different in each case, but the framework activities remain the same. 
 For many software projects, framework activities are applied iteratively as a project progresses. That is, communication, planning, modeling, construction, 
and deployment are applied repeatedly through a number of project iterations. 
Each iteration produces a  software increment
 
 that provides stakeholders with a 
subset of overall software features and functionality. As each increment is pro-

duced, the software becomes more and more complete.   
 
 
2.2.2  Umbrella Activities 
 
Software engineering process framework activities are complemented by a num-ber of   
 
umbrella activities.
 
 
 
 In general, umbrella activities are applied throughout 
a software project and help a software team manage and control progress, qual-
ity, change, and risk. Typical umbrella activities include: 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Software project tracking and control 
—allows the software team to assess progress against the project plan and take any necessary action to maintain the 
schedule.    
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management 
—assesses risks that may affect the outcome of the project or the quality of the product.    
 
 
 
 
 
Software quality assurance 
—deﬁ nes and conducts the activities required to 
ensure software quality. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Technical reviews
 
—assess software engineering work products in an effort to uncover and remove errors before they are propagated to the next activity. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Measurement 
—deﬁ nes and collects process, project, and product measures 
that assist the team in delivering software that meets stakeholders’ needs; can 
be used in conjunction with all other framework and umbrella activities.    
 
 
 
 
 
Software conﬁ guration management
 
—manages the effects of change throughout the software process.    
 
 
 
 
 
Reusability management 
—deﬁ nes criteria for work product reuse (includ-
ing software components) and establishes mechanisms to achieve reusable 
components.    
 
 
 
 
 
Work product preparation and production
 
—encompass the activities re-quired to create work products such as models, documents, logs, forms, and 
lists.    
Each of these umbrella activities is discussed in detail later in this book.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
2.2.3  Process Adaptation 
 
Previously in this section, we noted that the software engineering process is not a rigid prescription that must be followed dogmatically by a software team. Rather, 

it should be agile and adaptable (to the problem, to the project, to the team,    Umbrella activities 
occur throughout the 
software process and 
focus primarily on 
project management, 
tracking, and control.    Software process 

adaptation is essential 
for project success. pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   18pre22126_ch02_014-028.indd   1813/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM