795  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regardless of its application domain, its size, or its complexity, computer 
software will evolve over time. Change drives this process. For computer 
software, change occurs when errors are corrected, when the software is adapted to a new environment, when the customer requests new features 
or functions, and when the application is reengineered to provide beneﬁ t in 
a modern context. Over the past 40 years, Manny Lehman [e.g., Leh97a] and 
his colleagues have performed detailed analyses of industry-grade software 
and systems in an effort to develop a  uniﬁ ed theory for software evolution.
 
 The
 
MAINTENANCE AND REENGINEERING   
 
CHAPTER36  
KEY CONCEPTS     business process 
reengineering 
(BPR). . . . . . . . . . 799  

    document 

restructuring. . . . . 804  

    forward 

engineering. . . . . . 811  

    inventory analysis  .803 
     maintainability  . . . 797  
 QUICK LOOK   
What is it?   Consider any tech-nology product that has served you 

well. You use it regularly, but it’s get-

ting old. It breaks too often, takes 
longer to repair than you’d like, and no longer 

represents the newest technology. What to do? 

For a time, you try to ﬁ
 x it, patch it, even extend 
its functionality. That’s called maintenance. But 

maintenance becomes increasingly difﬁ cult as 
the years pass. There comes a time when you’ll 

need to rebuild it. You’ll create a product with 

added functionality, better performance and 

reliability, and improved maintainability. That’s 

what we call reengineering. 
  
 
Who does it?   At an organizational level, main-tenance is performed by support staff that are 

part of the software engineering organization. 

Reengineering is performed by business spe-

cialists (often consulting companies), and at 
the software level, reengineering is performed 

by software engineers.   
 
Why is it important? 
  We live in a rapidly 
changing world. The demands on business 
functions and the information technology that 

supports them are changing at a pace that 

puts enormous competitive pressure on every 

commercial organization. That’s why software 

must be maintained continually, and at the ap-

propriate time, reengineered to keep pace.   
 
What are the steps?   Maintenance corrects defects, adapts the software to meet a chang-
ing environment, and enhances functionality 
to meet the evolving needs of customers. At 
a strategic level, business process reengineer-

ing (BPR) deﬁ nes business goals, identiﬁ
 es and 
evaluates existing business processes, and 
creates revised business processes that better 
meet current goals. Software reengineering 
encompasses inventory analysis, document re-

structuring, reverse engineering, program and 
data restructuring, and forward engineering. 

The intent of these activities is to create ver-

sions of existing programs that exhibit higher 
quality and better maintainability. 
  
 
What is the work product? 
  A variety of maintenance and reengineering work products 
(e.g., use cases, analysis and design models, 
test procedures) are produced. The ﬁ nal output 
is upgraded software.   
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?  
 Use the same SQA practices that are applied 
in every software engineering process— 

technical reviews assess the analysis and 
design models; specialized reviews consider 
business applicability and compatibility; and 
testing is applied to uncover errors in content, 
functionality, and interoperability.  
 pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   795pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   79513/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM