CHAPTER 1  
THE NATURE OF SOFTWARE
 7 
 
 
 
 
Application software —stand-alone programs that solve a speciﬁ c business 
need. Applications in this area process business or technical data in a way 
that facilitates business operations or management/technical decision 
making.    
 
 
 
Engineering/scientific software —a broad array of “number-crunching 
programs that range from astronomy to volcanology, from automotive 

stress analysis to orbital dynamics, and from computer-aided design to 

molecular biology, from genetic analysis to meteorology. 
   
 
 
Embedded software— resides within a product or system and is used to implement and control features and functions for the end user and for the 
system itself. Embedded software can perform limited and esoteric func-
tions (e.g., key pad control for a microwave oven) or provide signiﬁ cant 
function and control capability (e.g., digital functions in an automobile 
such as fuel control, dashboard displays, and braking systems).    
 
 
Product-line software —designed to provide a speciﬁ c capability for use 
by many different customers. Product-line software can focus on a limited 
and esoteric marketplace (e.g., inventory control products) or address 
mass consumer. 
   
 
 
Web/Mobile applications —this network-centric software category spans a wide array of applications and encompasses both browser-based apps and 

software that resides on mobile devices.    
 
 
Artificial intelligence software— makes use of nonnumerical algorithms to solve complex problems that are not amenable to computation or straight-
forward analysis. Applications within this area include robotics, expert 
systems, pattern recognition (image and voice), artiﬁ cial neural networks, 
theorem proving, and game playing.  
 
 
 
 
  Millions of software engineers worldwide are hard at work on software proj-ects in one or more of these categories. In some cases, new systems are being 

built, but in many others, existing applications are being corrected, adapted, 

and enhanced. It is not uncommon for a young software engineer to work on 

a program that is older than she is! Past generations of software people have 

left a legacy in each of the categories we have discussed. Hopefully, the legacy 

to be left behind by this generation will ease the burden on future software 

engineers. 
  
 
1.1.3  Legacy Software 
 
Hundreds of thousands of computer programs fall into one of the seven broad application domains discussed in the preceding subsection. Some of these are 
state-of-the-art software—just released to individuals, industry, and government. 

But other programs are older, in some cases  
much 
 older. 
 
WebRef 
 One of the most 
comprehensive libraries 
of shareware/freeware 
can be found at   shareware.cnet.com   
  uote:  “What a computer 
is to me is the most 
remarkable tool 
that we have ever 
come up with. It’s 

the equivalent of 
a bicycle for our 
minds.”  Steve Jobs 
pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   7pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   713/12/13   10:00 PM13/12/13   10:00 PM