CHAPTER 35  
RISK MANAGEMENT 789 
 
 
•  Deﬁ ne work product standards and establish mechanisms to be sure that 
all models and documents are developed in a timely manner. 
  
 
 
•  Conduct peer reviews of all work (so that more than one person is “up to speed”).   
 
 
•  Assign a backup staff member for every critical technologist.  
 
  As the project proceeds,  risk-monitoring 
 activities commence. The project 
manager monitors factors that may provide an indication of whether the risk 
is becoming more or less likely. In the case of high staff turnover, the general 

attitude of team members based on project pressures, the degree to which the 
team has jelled, interpersonal relationships among team members, potential 
problems with compensation and beneﬁ ts, and the availability of jobs within the 
company and outside it are all monitored.  In addition to monitoring these factors, a project manager should monitor the 
effectiveness of risk mitigation steps. For example, a risk mitigation step noted 

here called for the deﬁ nition of work product standards and mechanisms to be 
sure that work products are developed in a timely manner. This is one mechanism 

for ensuring continuity, should a critical individual leave the project. The project 

manager should monitor work products carefully to ensure that each can stand on 

its own and that each imparts information that would be necessary if a newcomer 

were forced to join the software team somewhere in the middle of the project. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Risk management and contingency planning 
 assumes that mitigation efforts 
have failed and that the risk has become a reality. Continuing the example, the 

project is well under way and a number of people announce that they will be leav-
ing. If the mitigation strategy has been followed, backup is available, information 

is documented, and knowledge has been dispersed across the team. In addition, 

you can temporarily refocus resources (and readjust the project schedule) to those 

functions that are fully staffed, enabling newcomers who must be added to the 

team to “get up to speed.” Those individuals who are leaving are asked to stop all 

work and spend their last weeks in “knowledge transfer mode.” This might include 

video-based knowledge capture, the development of “commentary documents or 

Wikis,” and/or meeting with other team members who will remain on the project. 
 It is important to note that risk mitigation, monitoring, and management (RMMM) steps incur additional project cost. For example, spending the time to 
back up every critical technologist costs money. Part of risk management, there-

fore, is to evaluate when the beneﬁ ts accrued by the RMMM steps are outweighed 
by the costs associated with implementing them. In essence, you perform a clas-
sic cost-beneﬁ t analysis. If risk aversion steps for high turnover will increase both 
project cost and duration by an estimated 15 percent, but the predominant cost 
factor is “backup,” management may decide not to implement this step. On the 
other hand, if the risk aversion steps are projected to increase costs by 5 percent 
and duration by only 3 percent, management will likely put all into place.    If RE for a speciﬁ c risk 
is less than the cost of 
risk mitigation, don’t 
try to mitigate the 

risk but continue to 
monitor it. pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   789pre22126_ch35_777-794.indd   78913/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM