APPENDIX 2  
OBJECT-ORIENTED CONCEPTS
 895levels in the hierarchy. In fact, whenever a new class is to be created, you have a number of options:   
 • The class can be designed and built from scratch. That is, inheritance is 
not used.    • The class hierarchy can be searched to determine if a class higher in the 
hierarchy contains most of the required attributes and operations. The 
new class inherits from the higher class and additions may then be added, 
as required.    • The class hierarchy can be restructured so that the required attributes 
and operations can be inherited by the new class.    • Characteristics of an existing class can be overridden, and different ver-
sions of attributes or operations are implemented for the new class.  
  Like all fundamental design concepts, inheritance can provide signiﬁ cant beneﬁ
 t 
for the design, but if it is used inappropriately,  3 it can complicate a design unnec-
essarily and lead to error-prone software that is difﬁ cult to maintain. 
 
 
 
 
Messages.   
Classes must interact with one another to achieve design goals. A message stimulates some behavior to occur in the receiving object. The behavior 
is accomplished when an operation is executed.  The interaction between objects is illustrated schematically in   
Figure A2.2. 
An operation within  SenderObject 
 generates a message of the form  
message 
 (<parameters>) where the parameters identify  ReceiverObject 
 as the object 
to be stimulated by the message, the operation within  ReceiverObject 
 that is 
to receive the message, and the data items that provide information that is 

required for the operation to be successful. The collaboration deﬁ ned between 
classes as part of the analysis model provides useful guidance in the design of 

messages. 
  
 
3  For example, designing a subclass that inherits attributes and operations from more than one 
superclass (sometimes called “multiple inheritance”) is frowned upon by most designers.  FIGURE A2.2Message pass-ing between 
objects  
 :SenderObject
Message (<parameters>)
:ReceiverObject
pre22126_app2_891-898.indd   895pre22126_app2_891-898.indd   89513/12/13   6:18 PM13/12/13   6:18 PM