226 PART TWO  
MODELINGsoftware engineering action within the modeling activity and sets the stage for  construction 
 (code generation and testing).  Each of the elements of the requirements model (Chapters 9–11) provides  information that is necessary to create the four design models required for a complete speciﬁ cation of design. The ﬂ
 ow of information during software 
 design is illustrated in  Figure 12.1 . The requirements model, manifested by  scenario-based, class-based, and behavioral elements, feed the design task. Using design notation and design methods discussed in later chapters, design 
produces a data/class design, an architectural design, an interface design, and 
a component design.    
The data/class design transforms class models (Chapter 10) into design class realizations and the requisite data structures required to implement the soft-
ware. The objects and relationships deﬁ ned in the CRC diagram and the detailed 
data content depicted by class attributes and other notation provide the basis for 
the data design activity. Part of class design may occur in conjunction with the 

design of software architecture. More detailed class design occurs as each soft-
ware component is designed.  The architectural design deﬁ nes the relationship between major structural el-
ements of the software, the architectural styles and patterns (Chapter 13 that can 
be used to achieve the requirements deﬁ ned for the system, and the constraints 
that affect the way in which architecture can be implemented [Sha96]. The archi-
tectural design representation—the framework of a computer-based system—is 

derived from the requirements model.    Software design should 
always begin with 
a consideration of 
data—the foundation 
for all other elements 
of the design. After 
the foundation is laid, 
the architecture must 
be derived. Only then 
should you perform 

other design tasks. Analysis ModelUse cases - text Use-case diagrams 
Activity diagrams 
Swimlane diagramsBehavioralelementsClass-basedelementsScenerio-basedelementsClass diagrams Analysis packages 
CRC models 
Collaboration diagrams  State diagrams Sequence diagramsData/Class DesignInterface Design
Architectural DesignComponent-Level DesignDesign Model  
FIGURE 12.1 
Translating the requirements model into the design model 
 
 pre22126_ch12_224-251.indd   226pre22126_ch12_224-251.indd   22613/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM