CHAPTER 20  
REVIEW TECHNIQUES 439 
But what if the interface is pivotal to the success of the entire project? What if human lives depended on an interface that was ergonomically sound? You might 

decide that a more rigorous approach was necessary. A review team would be 

formed. Each person on the team would have a speciﬁ c role to play—leading 
the team, recording ﬁ ndings, presenting the material, and so on. Each reviewer 
would be given access to the work product (in this case, the interface prototype) 
before the review and would spend time looking for errors, inconsistencies, and 
omissions. A set of speciﬁ c tasks would be conducted based on an agenda that 
was developed before the review occurred. The results of the review would be 
formally recorded, and the team would decide on the status of the work product 
based on the outcome of the review. Members of the review team might also ver-

ify that the corrections made were done properly. 
 In this book we consider two broad categories of technical reviews: informal 
reviews and more formal technical reviews. Within each broad category, a number 

of different approaches can be chosen. These are presented in the sections that 

follow. 
  
 
 
 
 
 20.5 I
NFORMAL REVIEWS  
 
Informal reviews include a simple desk check of a software engineering work product with a colleague, a casual meeting (involving more than two people) for 
the purpose of reviewing a work product, or the review-oriented aspects of pair 
programming (Chapter 5).  A simple  desk check 
 or a  
casual meeting 
 conducted with a colleague is a re-
view. However, because there is no advance planning or preparation, no agenda 

or meeting structure, and no follow-up on the errors that are uncovered, the ef-
fectiveness of such reviews is considerably lower than more formal approaches. 
But a simple desk check can and does uncover errors that might otherwise prop-
agate further into the software process.  One way to improve the efﬁ cacy of a desk check review is to develop a set 
of simple review checklists for each major work product produced by the soft-
ware team. The questions posed within the checklist are generic, but they will 
serve to guide the reviewers as they check the work product. For example, let’s 

reexamine a desk check of the interface prototype for  
 
SafeHomeAssured.com 
 
. Rather than simply playing with the prototype at the designer’s workstation, the 

designer and a colleague examine the prototype using a checklist for interfaces:  
 
 
•  Is the layout designed using standard conventions? Left to right? Top to 
bottom?   
 
 
•  Does the presentation need to be scrolled?   
 
 
•  Are color and placement, typeface, and size used effectively?  pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   439pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   43913/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM