772 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
 
 
 
•  Develop procedural details for the graphical layout of security system components.   
 
 
•  Conduct pair walkthroughs as required.  
 
  These tasks become part of the increment schedule for the fourth WebApp incre-
ment and are allocated over the increment development schedule. They can be input 

to scheduling software (e.g., Microsoft  Project
 
) and used for tracking and control. 
 
 
 
  
 
Tracking the Schedule  
 
Tracking the Schedule 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce 
prior to the initiation of the  SafeHome 
 software project.    
 
 
 
 
 
The players:  Doug Miller (manager of the  
SafeHome 
 software engineering team) and Vinod Raman, Jamie 
Lazar, and other members of the product software 

engineering team.    
 
 
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug (glancing at a PowerPoint slide):  The 
schedule for the ﬁ rst  
SafeHome 
 increment seems reason-able, but we’re going to have trouble tracking progress.    
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod (a concerned look on his face):  Why? We 
have tasks scheduled on a daily basis, plenty of work 
products, and we’ve been sure that we’re not overallo-
cating resources.    
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  All good, but how do we know when the re-
quirements model for the ﬁ rst increment is complete? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie:  Things are iterative, so that’s difﬁ
 cult. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  
take “analysis classes deﬁ ned.” You indicated that as a 
milestone.    
 
 
 
 
 
Vinod:  We have. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  Who makes that determination? 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie (aggravated):  They’re done when they’re done. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  That’s not good enough, Jamie. We have to 
schedule TRs [technical reviews, Chapter 20], and you 
haven’t done that. The successful completion of a review 

on the analysis model, for instance, is a reasonable 
milestone. Understand?    
 
 
 
 
 
Jamie (frowning):  Okay, back to the drawing 
board.    
 
 
 
 
 
Doug:  It shouldn’t take more than an hour to make the 
yone else can get started now. 
  
  
SAFEHOME  
 
 
 
 
 
  34.6  EARNED VALUE ANALYSIS
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We discussed a number of qualitative approaches to project tracking in Sec-
34.5. Each provides the project manager with an indication of progress, but 

an assessment of the information provided is somewhat subjective. It is reason-
able to ask whether there is a quantitative technique for assessing progress as 
the software team progresses through the work tasks allocated to the project 
schedule. In fact, a technique for performing quantitative analysis of progress 
does exist. It is called  earned value analysis 
 (EVA). Humphrey [Hum95] discusses 
earned value in the following manner:  
The earned value system provides a common value scale for every [software project] task, regardless of the type of work being performed. The total hours to do the whole 
project are estimated, and every task is given an earned value based on its estimated 
percentage of the total.  
    Earned value provides 
a quantitative indica-
tion of progress. pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   772pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   77213/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM