646 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29.4.4   
Change Management  
The workﬂ ow associated with change control for conventional software (Sec-
29.3.3) is generally too ponderous for WebApp and mobile software devel-

opment. It is unlikely that the change request, change report, and engineering 
change order sequence can be achieved in an agile manner that is acceptable 
for many Web and MobileApp development projects. How then do we manage a 

continuous stream of changes requested for content and functionality?  To implement effective change management within the “code and go” phi-
losophy that continues to dominate much of Web and mobile development, the 

conventional change control process must be modiﬁ ed. Each change should be 
categorized into one of four classes:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class 1 
—A content or function change that corrects an error or enhances local content or functionality. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Class 2 
—A content or function change that has an impact on other content objects or functional components.    
 
 
 
 
 
Class 3 
—A content or function change that has a broad impact across an app (e.g., major extension of functionality, signiﬁ
 cant enhancement or reduction in 
content, major required changes in navigation).    
 
 
 
 
 
Class 4 
—A major design change (e.g., a change in interface design or naviga-tion approach) that will be immediately noticeable to one or more categories of 
user. 
 
 
  Once the requested change has been categorized, it can be processed according to the algorithm shown in  Figure 29.7  
 
 for WebApps but equally applicable for 
MobileApps.  
 
 
 
  Referring to the ﬁ gure, class 1 and 2 changes are treated informally and are 
handled in an agile manner. For a class 1 change, you would evaluate the im-

pact of the change, but no external review or documentation is required. As the 
change is made, standard check-in and check-out procedures are enforced by 
conﬁ guration repository tools. For class 2 changes, you should review the impact 
of the change on related objects (or ask other developers responsible for those 
objects to do so). If the change can be made without requiring signiﬁ cant changes 
to other objects, modiﬁ cation occurs without additional review or documenta-
tion. If substantive changes are required, further evaluation and planning are 
necessary. 
 Class 3 and 4 changes are also treated in an agile manner, but some de-
scriptive documentation and more formal review procedures are required. A 
 change description 
—describing the change and providing a brief assessment of the impact of the change—is developed for class 3 changes. The description is 
distributed to all members of the team who review it to better assess its impact. 
A change description is also developed for class 4 changes, but in this case, the 
review is conducted by all stakeholders. pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   646pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   64613/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM