568 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT(Chapter 20) and test usability (Chapter 15), as well as performance. Conﬁ gura-
tion testing is especially important as a mechanism for verifying the MobileApp’s 

ability to take context into account. The intent is to uncover and correct errors 
before the MobileApp is released to the end-user community. 
 There are several important questions to ask when creating a MobileApp test-ing strategy [Sch09].   
 
 
•  Do you have to build a fully functional prototype before you test with users? 
  
 
 
•  Should you test with the user’s device or provide a device for testing? 
  
 
 
•  What devices and user groups should you include in testing?   
 
 
•  What are the beneﬁ ts/drawbacks of lab testing versus remote testing? 
   
We address each of these questions throughout this chapter. 
 
 
 
 26.1  
TESTING GUIDELINES  
 
MobileApps that execute entirely on a mobile device can be tested using  traditional software testing methods (Chapter 23) or using emulators running on personal computers. On the other hand, thin-client MobileApps that make 
use of server-based resources are particularly challenging to test. In addition to 

many of the testing challenges presented by WebApps (Chapter 25), the testing 

of thin-client MobileApps must also consider transmission of data through Inter-

net gateways and telephone networks [Was10]. Users expect MobileApps to be 

context aware and deliver personalized user experiences based on the physical 
location of a device in relation to available network features. But testing Mobile-
Apps in a dynamic ad hoc network environment using every possible device and 
network conﬁ guration is difﬁ
 cult, if not impossible. 
  
 
 
 
 
To understand the objectives of MobileApp testing, you should consider the 
many unique challenges facing app designers. MobileApps are expected to de-
liver much of the complex functionality and reliability found in PC-based ap-
plications, but they are resident on mobile platforms with relatively limited 
resources. The following guidelines provide a basis for mobile application test-
ing [Kea07]:  
 
 
•   
Understand the network and device landscape before testing to identify 
bottlenecks. 
 Testing across borders is discussed in Section 26.4. 
  
 
 
•   
Conduct tests in uncontrolled real-world test conditions
 
 (ﬁ eld-based test-
ing), especially for a multitier mobile application. Testing in the produc-

tion environment is discussed in Section 26.2.5.   
 
 
•   
Select the right automation test tool. 
 Ideally, the tool should support all 
desired platforms, allow testing for various screen types, resolutions, 
and input mechanisms—such as touchpad and keypad, and implement    Involve users as early 
as possible in the 
testing cycle—early 
feedback helps in 
design correction. 
pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   568pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   56813/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM