CHAPTER 34  
PROJECT SCHEDULING 765 
 
 
 
 
 34.5  
SCHEDULING    
Scheduling of a software project does not differ greatly from scheduling of any multitask engineering effort. Therefore, generalized project scheduling tools 
and techniques can be applied with little modiﬁ cation for software projects. 
  
Program evaluation and review technique
 
 (PERT) and the  
critical path method 
 (CPM) are two project scheduling methods that can be applied to software devel-
opment. Both techniques are driven by information already developed in earlier 
project planning activities: estimates of effort, a decomposition of the product 
function, the selection of the appropriate process model and task set, and de-
composition of the tasks that are selected.  Interdependencies among tasks may be deﬁ ned using a task network. Tasks, 
sometimes called the project  work breakdown structure
 
 (WBS), are deﬁ
 ned for 
the product as a whole or for individual functions.  Both PERT and CPM provide quantitative tools that allow you to (1) determine 
the critical path—the chain of tasks that determines the duration of the project, 
(2) establish “most likely” time estimates for individual tasks by applying statis-
tical models, and (3) calculate “boundary times” that deﬁ ne a time “window” for 
a particular task.   uote:  “ 
All  we have to 
decide is what to 
do with the time 
that is given to us.”  Gandalf in 
 The Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Rings   
 
Project Scheduling 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective:   
The objective of project scheduling tools is to enable a project manager to deﬁ ne work tasks; establish their 
dependencies; assign human resources to tasks; and 
develop a variety of graphs, charts, and tables that aid 

in tracking and control of the software project.   
 
Mechanics:   
In general, project scheduling tools require the speciﬁ cation of a work breakdown structure of tasks 
or the generation of a task network. Once the task 
breakdown (an outline) or network is deﬁ ned, start and 
end dates, human resources, hard deadlines, and other 
data are attached to each. The tool then generates a 
variety of time-line charts and other tables that enable a 

manager to assess the task ﬂ ow of a project. These data 
can be updated continually as the project is under way. 
  
 
 
Representative Tools:  8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMS Realtime, 
 developed by Advanced Management Systems (  
www.amsusa.com
 
 
), provides scheduling capabilities for projects of all sizes and types.    
 
 
 
 
 
Microsoft Project, 
 developed by Microsoft (  
www.
microsoft.com
 
 
), is the most widely used PC-based project scheduling tool.    
 
 
 
 
 
4C, 
 developed by  4C Systems 
 (  
www.4csys.com
 
 
), supports all aspects of project planning including 

scheduling.    
A comprehensive list of project management software vendors and products can be found at   
www.infogoal.
com/pmc/pmcswr.htm
 
 
.  
  
SOFTWARE
 TOOLS  
 
8.  Tools noted here do not represent an endorsement, but rather a sampling of tools in this cate-
gory. In most cases, tool names are trademarked by their respective developers. 
pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   765pre22126_ch34_754-776.indd   76513/12/13   10:02 PM13/12/13   10:02 PM