CHAPTER 16  
PATTERN-BASED DESIGN
 353 
A pattern template provides a standardized means for describing a design pattern. Each of the template entries represents characteristics of the design 
pattern that can be searched (e.g., via a database) so that the appropriate pattern 
can be found.   
 
16.1.4  Pattern Languages and Repositories 
 
When we use the term  language, 
 the ﬁ
 rst thing that comes to mind is either a 
natural language (e.g., English, Spanish, Chinese) or a programming language 
(e.g., C++, Java). In both cases the language has a syntax and semantics that are 
used to communicate ideas or procedural instructions is an effective manner. 
 
 
 
   
When the term  language 
 is used in the context of design patterns, it takes 
on a slightly different meaning. A  pattern language 
 encompasses a collection 
of patterns, each described using a standardized template (Section 16.1.3) and 
interrelated to show how these patterns collaborate to solve problems across an 
application domain.  3 
 
   
In a natural language, words are organized into sentences that impart mean-ing. The structure of sentences is described by the language’s syntax. In a pattern 

language, design patterns are organized in a way that provides a “structured 
method of describing good design practices within a particular domain.”  4 
 
 
 
 
 
   
In a way, a pattern language is analogous to a hypertext instruction manual 
for problem solving in a speciﬁ c application domain. The problem domain under 
consideration is ﬁ rst described hierarchically, beginning with broad design prob-
lems associated with the domain and then reﬁ ning each of the broad problems 
into lower levels of abstraction. In a software context, broad design problems 
tend to be architectural in nature and address the overall structure of the appli-
cation and the data or content that serve it. Architectural problems are reﬁ ned 
to lower levels of abstraction, leading to design patterns that solve subproblems 
and collaborate with one another at the component (or class) level. Rather than 
a sequential list of patterns, a pattern language represents an interconnected 
collection in which the user can begin with a broad design problem and “burrow 
down” to uncover speciﬁ c problems and their solutions. 
 An extensive list of pattern languages have been proposed for software de-sign [Hil13] which contains pointers to design patterns that are part of pattern 
languages in a Web-accessible patterns repositories. The repository provides an 

index of all design patterns and contains hypermedia links that enable the user 
to understand the collaborations between patterns.    If you can’t ﬁ nd a 
pattern language that 

addresses your prob-
lem domain, look for 
analogies in another 
set of patterns. 
 WebRef 
 For a listing of useful 
patterns languages 

see  c2.com/ppr/
titles.html .  
Additional information can be 

obtained at hillside.net/patterns/ .   
3  Christopher Alexander originally proposed pattern languages for building architecture and 
urban planning. Today, pattern languages have been developed for everything from the social 

sciences to the software engineering process.   
4  This Wikipedia description can be found at  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pattern_language 
. pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   353pre22126_ch16_347-370.indd   35316/12/13   6:22 PM16/12/13   6:22 PM