324 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
Interface analysis 
 focuses on the proﬁ
 le of the users who will interact with 
the system. Skill level, business understanding, and general receptiveness to the 
new system are recorded; and different user categories are deﬁ ned. For each 
user category, requirements are elicited. In essence, you work to understand the 

system perception (Section 15.2.1) for each class of users.  Once general requirements have been deﬁ ned, a more detailed 
 task  
analysis 
 is conducted. Those tasks that the user performs to accomplish the goals of the 

 system are identiﬁ ed, described, and elaborated (over a number of iterative passes 
through the spiral). T15.3.  
Finally, 
analysis of the user environment focuses on the characteristics of the physical 

work environment (e.g., location, lighting, position constraints). 
 The information gathered as part of the analysis action is used to create an analysis model for the interface. Using this model as a basis, the design activity 
commences.  The goal of  interface design 
 is to deﬁ
 ne a set of interface objects and actions 
(and their screen representations) that enable a user to perform all deﬁ ned tasks 
in a manner that meets every usability goal deﬁ ned for the system. Interface de-
sign is discussed in more detail in Section 15.4.   
Interface construction 
 normally begins with the creation of a prototype that 
enables usage scenarios to be evaluated. As the iterative design process contin-
ues, a user interface tool kit (Section 15.5) may be used to complete the construc-
tion of the interface.   
Interface validation 
 focuses on (1) the ability of the interface to implement 
every user task correctly, to accommodate all task variations, and to achieve all 

general user requirements; (2) the degree to which the interface is easy to use 
and easy to learn, and (3) the user’s acceptance of the interface as a useful tool 

in his or her work.  As we have already noted, the activities described in this section occur itera-tively. Therefore, there is no need to attempt to specify every detail (for the analysis 
  uote:  “It’s better to 
design the user 
experience than 
rectify it.”  Jon Meads 
Interface design
Interface construction
Interface analysis and modeling
Interface validation
 FIGURE 15.1 
The user in-terface design 

process
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   324pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32413/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM