CHAPTER 31  
PROJECT MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS 687percent, while about 175 experienced major delays and overruns, or were ter-
minated without completion.” Although the success rate for present-day soft-
ware projects may have improved somewhat, our project failure rate remains 
much higher than it should be.  1 
 
 
  To avoid project failure, a software project manager and the software engi-
neers who build the product must avoid a set of common warning signs, under-

stand the critical success factors that lead to good project management, and 
develop a commonsense approach for planning, monitoring, and controlling the 
project. Each of these issues is discussed in Section 31.5 and in the chapters that 
follow. 
  
 
 
 
 
 31.2  
PEOPLE  
 
People build computer software, and projects succeed because well-trained, mo-tivated people get things done. All of us, from senior engineering vice presidents 
to the lowliest practitioner, often take people for granted. Managers argue that 

people are primary, but their actions sometimes belie their words. In this section 

we examine the stakeholders who participate in the software process and the 
manner in which they are organized to perform effective software engineering.   
 
31.2.1   
The Stakeholders  
The software process (and every software project) is populated by stakeholders who can be categorized into one of ﬁ ve constituencies:
 
 
 
 
 1.
   
Senior managers 
 who deﬁ ne the business issues that often have a signiﬁ
 -cant inﬂ uence on the project. 
  
 
 
 2.
   
Project (technical) managers
 
 who must plan, motivate, organize, and con-trol the practitioners who do software work.   
 
 
 3.
   
Practitioners 
 who deliver the technical skills that are necessary to engi-neer a product or application.   
 
 
 4.
   
Customers 
 who specify the requirements for the software to be engi-neered and other stakeholders who have a peripheral interest in the 
outcome.   
 
 
 5.
   
End users 
 who interact with the software once it is released for production use.  
 
  
 
1  Given these statistics, it’s reasonable to ask how the impact of computers continues to grow 
exponentially. Part of the answer, we think, is that a substantial number of these “failed” proj-

ects are ill conceived in the ﬁ rst place. Customers lose interest quickly (because what they’ve 
requested wasn’t really as important as they ﬁ rst thought), and the projects are cancelled. 
pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   687pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   68713/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM