CHAPTER 37  
SOFTWARE PROCESS IMPROVEMENT
 823 
SPI will be approved and implemented only after its proponents demonstrate  ﬁ nancial leverage
 
 [Bir98]. Financial leverage is demonstrated by examining tech-
nical beneﬁ ts (e.g., fewer defects delivered to the ﬁ
 eld, reduced rework, lower 
maintenance costs, or more rapid time-to-market) and translating them into dol-
37.7) for 

SPI costs.   
 
 
 
 
 37.2  
THE SPI PROCESS  
 
The hard part of SPI isn’t the deﬁ nition of characteristics that deﬁ
 ne a high- 
quality software process or the creation of a process maturity model. Those 
things are relatively easy. Rather, the hard part is establishing a consensus for 

initiating SPI and deﬁ ning an ongoing strategy for implementing it across a soft-
ware organization.  The Software Engineering Institute has developed IDEAL— “an organizational improvement model that serves as a road map for initiating, planning, and imple-
menting improvement actions” [SEI08]. IDEAL is representative of many process 
models for SPI, deﬁ ning ﬁ
 ve distinct activities— initiating, diagnosing, establish-
ing, acting, and learning—that guide an organization through SPI activities.  In this book, we present a somewhat different road map for SPI, based on the process model for SPI originally proposed in [Pre88]. It applies a commonsense 
philosophy that requires an organization to (1) look in the mirror, (2) then get 

smarter so it can make intelligent choices, (3) select the process model (and re-
lated technology elements) that best meets its needs, (4) instantiate the model 
into its operating environment and its culture, and (5) evaluate what has been 
done. These ﬁ ve activities (discussed in the subsections 
 3 
 
 that follow) are ap-
plied in an iterative (cyclical) manner in an effort to foster continuous process 
improvement.   
 
 
37.2.1   
Assessment and Gap Analysis  
Any attempt to improve your current software process without ﬁ rst assessing 
the efﬁ cacy of current framework activities and associated software engineer-
ing practices would be like starting on a long journey to a new location with 

no idea where you are starting from. You’d depart with great ﬂ
 ourish, wander 
around trying to get your bearings, expend lots of energy and endure large 

doses of frustration, and likely, decide you really didn’t want to travel anyway. 

Stated simply, before you begin any journey, it’s a good idea to know precisely 

where you are. 
  
3  Some of the content in these sections has been adapted from [Pre88] with permission. 
pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   823pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   82313/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM