CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 341 
 
 
•  Don’t force the user to search the display to determine how to link to other content or services.  
 
  A well-designed interface improves the user’s perception of the content or 
services provided by the site. It need not necessarily be ﬂ ashy, but it should al-
ways be well structured and ergonomically sound.   
 
 
15..5.2  Interface Design Workﬂ
 ow for Web and Mobile Apps 
 7 
 
  
 
Earlier in this chapter we noted that user interface design begins with the iden-tiﬁ cation of user, task, and environmental requirements. Once user tasks have 
been identiﬁ ed, user scenarios (use cases) are created and analyzed to deﬁ
 ne a 
set of interface objects and actions.  Information contained within the requirements model forms the basis for the creation of a screen layout that depicts graphical design and placement of icons, 
deﬁ nition of descriptive screen text, speciﬁ
 cation and titling for windows, and 
speciﬁ cation of major and minor menu items. Tools are then used to prototype 
and ultimately implement the interface design model. The following tasks repre-
sent a rudimentary workﬂ ow:
   
 
 1.   
Review information contained in the requirements model and reﬁ ne as 
required. 
 
    
 2.   
Develop a rough sketch of the WebApp interface layout.
 
 If the interface layout (a prototype developed during requirements modeling) already ex-
ists, it should be reviewed and reﬁ ned as required. 
    
 3.   
Map user objectives into speciﬁ c interface actions.
 
 For the vast majority of Web and mobile apps, the user will have a relatively small set of primary 

objectives. These should be mapped into speciﬁ c interface. In essence, you 
must answer the following question: “How does the interface enable the 
user to accomplish each objective?”     
 4.   
Deﬁ ne a set of user tasks that are associated with each action.
 
 Each in-terface action (e.g., “buy a product”) is associated with a set of user tasks. 
These tasks have been identiﬁ ed during requirements modeling. During 
design, they must be mapped into speciﬁ c interactions that encompass 
navigation issues, content objects, and application functions.     
 5.   
Storyboard screen images for each interface action. 
 As each action is considered, a sequence of storyboard images (screen images) should be 
created to depict how the interface responds to user interaction. Content 
objects should be identiﬁ ed (even if they have not yet been designed and 
developed), and navigation links should be indicated.   
 
7  More detailed discussions of design for WebApps and mobile applications are presented in 
Chapters 17 and 18, respectively. 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   341pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   34113/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM