392 PART TWO  
MODELING 
And the trend is not exclusive to the United State’s top four carriers. As GigaOM 
 2 
 
 points out, regional operators and other small carriers are also “tapping into the 
trove of cheaper smartphones in the market.”  
 
  
The GartnerGroup [Gar12] reports that in that same business quarter, 419 mil-
lion smartphones were sold globally and projected annual sales of 119 million 
tablet computers, nearly a 100 percent increase over the previous year. Mobile 

computing has become a dominant force.   
 
 
 
 18.1  
THE CHALLENGES  
 
While mobile devices have many features in common with each other, their users 
often have very different perceptions of what features they expect to be bundled 
in each. Some users expect the same features that are provided on their per-

sonal computers. Others focus on the freedom that portable devices give them 
and gladly accept the reduced functionality in the mobile version of a familiar 
software product. Still others expect unique experiences not possible on tradi-
tional computing or entertainment devices. The user’s perception of “goodness” 

might be more important than any of the technical quality dimensions of the 
MobileApp itself.   
18.1.1  Development Considerations 
 
Like all computing devices, mobile platforms are differentiated by the software they deliver—a combination of operating system (e.g., Android or iOS) and a 
small subset of the hundreds of thousands of MobileApps that provide a very 
wide range of functionality. New tools allow individuals with little formal training 

to create and sell apps alongside other apps developed by large teams of soft-
ware developers.   
 
Even though apps can be developed by amateurs, many software engineers 
think that MobileApps are among the most challenging software systems being 

built today [Voa12]. Mobile platforms are very complex. Both the Android and iOS 

operating systems contain over 12 million lines of code. Mobile devices often have 

mini browsers that will not display the full set of content available on a Web page. 

Different mobile devices use different operating systems and platform dependent 

development environments. Mobile devices tend to have smaller and more varied 

screen sizes than personal computers. This may require greater attention to user 

interface design issues, including decisions to limit display of some content. In 

addition, MobileApps must be designed to take into account intermittent connec-
tivity outages, limitations on battery life, and other device constraints  3 
 
 [Whi08].  
 What makes 
MobileApp development 
different and 
challenging? ?  
2  See  
http://gigaom.com/mobile/carrier-data-conﬁ
 rms-it-half-of-us-now-owns-a-smartphone/
 
   
3  Available at  
 
http://www.devx.com/SpecialReports/Article/37693 
 
     developing 
MobileApps  . . . . . 395  

    mobility 

environments  . . . . 403  

    quality checklist  . . 397  

    technical 

considerations. . . . 393  

    user interface 

design  . . . . . . . . . 398    
pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   392pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   39216/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM