CHAPTER 29  
SOFTWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT
 639of your own changes on the members of the impact network and then informs members of the impact of those changes. Finally,  
backward impact management
 
 examines changes that are made by other team members and their impact on 
your work and incorporates mechanisms to mitigate the impact.   
 
 
29.3.5   
Conﬁ guration Audit 
 
Identiﬁ cation, version control, and change control help you to maintain order in 
what would otherwise be a chaotic and ﬂ uid situation. However, even the most suc-
cessful control mechanisms track a change only until an ECO is generated. How 

can a software team ensure that the change has been properly implemented? The 

answer is twofold: (1) technical reviews and (2) the software conﬁ guration audit. 
 The technical review (Chapter 20) focuses on the technical correctness of the conﬁ guration object that has been modiﬁ
 ed. The reviewers assess the SCI to de-
termine consistency with other SCIs, omissions, or potential side effects. A tech-
nical review should be conducted for all but the most trivial changes.  A  software conﬁ
 guration audit
 
 complements the technical review by assess-
ing a conﬁ guration object for characteristics that are generally not considered 
during review. The audit asks and answers the following questions: 
  
 
 
 
 
 1.
  Has the change speciﬁ ed in the ECO been made? Have any additional 
modiﬁ cations been incorporated? 
  
 
 
 2.
  Has a technical review been conducted to assess technical correctness?   
 
 
 3.
  Has the software process been followed and have software engineering standards been properly applied?   
 
 
 4.
  Has the change been “highlighted” in the SCI? Have the change date and change author been speciﬁ ed? Do the attributes of the conﬁ
 guration ob-
ject reﬂ ect the change? 
  
 
 
 5.
  Have SCM procedures for noting the change, recording it, and reporting it been followed?   
 
 
 6.
  Have all related SCIs been properly updated?   
 
In some cases, the audit questions are asked as part of a technical review. How-
ever, when SCM is a formal activity, the conﬁ
 guration audit is conducted sep-
arately by the quality assurance group. Such formal conﬁ guration audits also 
ensure that the correct SCIs (by version) have been incorporated into a speciﬁ c 
build and that all documentation is up to date and consistent with the version 
that has been built.   
 
 
 
 
29.3.6   
Status Reporting  
 
Conﬁ guration status reporting
 
 (sometimes called  
status accounting 
) is an SCM task that answers the following questions: (1) What happened? (2) Who did it? 
 What are 
the primary 
questions that 
we ask during 
a conﬁ guration 
audit? ?pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   639pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   63913/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM