552 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
25.4.3   
Testing Interface Semantics 
 
Once each interface mechanism has been “unit” tested, the focus of interface testing changes to a consideration of interface semantics. Interface semantics 
testing “evaluates how well the design takes care of users, offers clear direc-
tion, delivers feedback, and maintains consistency of language and approach” 
[Ngu00].  A thorough review of the interface design model can provide partial an-swers to the questions implied by the preceding paragraph. However, each 

use-case scenario (for each user category) should be tested once the WebApp 

has been implemented. In essence, a use case becomes the input for the de-
sign of a testing sequence. The intent of the testing sequence is to uncover 

errors that will preclude a user from achieving the objective associated with 

the use case. 
  
 
 
25.4.4   
Usability Tests 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Usability testing is similar to interface semantics testing (Section 25.4.3) in the sense that it also evaluates the degree to which users can interact effectively with 
the WebApp and the degree to which the WebApp guides users’ actions, provides 

meaningful feedback, and enforces a consistent interaction approach. Rather 
than focusing intently on the semantics of some interactive objective, usability 
reviews and tests are designed to determine the degree to which the WebApp 

interface makes the user’s life easy. 
 7 
 
 
  You will invariably contribute to the design of usability tests, but the tests 
themselves are conducted by end users. Usability testing can occur at a va-
riety of different levels of abstraction: (1) the usability of a speciﬁ c interface 
mechanism (e.g., a form) can be assessed, (2) the usability of a complete Web 

page (encompassing interface mechanisms, data objects, and related func-
tions) can be evaluated, or (3) the usability of the complete WebApp can be 

considered. 
 
 
 
   
The ﬁ rst step in usability testing is to identify a set of usability categories and 
establish testing objectives for each category. The following test categories and 

objectives (written in the form of a question) illustrate this approach:  8 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactivity— 
Are interaction mechanisms (e.g., pull-down menus, buttons, pointers) easy to understand and use?    
 
 
 
 
 
Layout 
—Are navigation mechanisms, content, and functions placed in a manner that allows the user to ﬁ nd them quickly? 
  
WebRef 
 A worthwhile guidance 
to usability testing can 
be found at   
http://www.keyrelevance

.com/articles/
usability-tips.htm  . 
 What 
characteristics 
of usability become 

the focus of testing 

and what speciﬁ c 
objectives are 

addressed? 
?  
7  The term  
user-friendliness
 
 has been used in this context. The problem, of course, is that one 
user’s perception of a “friendly” interface may be radically different from another’s. 
  
8  For additional information on usability, see Chapter 15. 
 pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   552pre22126_ch25_540-566.indd   55213/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM