CHAPTER 4  
PROCESS MODELS 57is no exception.  Figure 4.7  depicts the “phases” of the UP and relates them to 
the generic activities that have been discussed in Chapter 1 and earlier in this 
chapter. 
 
 
 
 
   
The  inception phase 
 of the UP encompasses both customer communication 
and planning activities. By collaborating with stakeholders, business require-
ments for the software are identiﬁ ed; a rough architecture for the system is pro-
posed; and a plan for the iterative, incremental nature of the ensuing project is 
developed. Fundamental business requirements are described through a set of 
preliminary use cases (Chapter 8) that describe which features and functions 
each major class of users desires. Architecture at this point is nothing more 
than a tentative outline of major subsystems and the functions and features that 
populate them. Later, the architecture will be reﬁ
 ned and expanded into a set 
of models that will represent different views of the system. Planning identiﬁ es 
 resources, assesses major risks, deﬁ nes a schedule, and establishes a basis for 
the phases that are to be applied as the software increment is developed.  The  elaboration phase 
 encompasses the communication and modeling activ-
ities of the generic process model ( Figure 4.7 ). Elaboration reﬁ nes and expands 
the preliminary use cases that were developed as part of the inception phase 
and expands the architectural representation to include ﬁ ve different views of 
the software—the use case model, the analysis model, the design model, the im-
plementation model, and the deployment model. In some cases, elaboration cre-
ates an “executable architectural baseline” [Arl02] that represents a “ﬁ rst cut” 
executable system.  15 
 
 The architectural baseline demonstrates the viability of the    UP  
phases  are similar 
in intent to the generic 
framework activities 
deﬁ ned in this book. 
Transition
Production
software incrementReleasemodelingconstructionplanningcommunicationdeploymentConstructionInceptionElaboration FIGURE 4.7 
The Uniﬁ ed 
Process
  
15  It is important to note that the architectural baseline is not a prototype in that it is not thrown 
away. Rather, the baseline is ﬂ
 eshed out during the next UP phase. 
pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   57pre22126_ch04_040-065.indd   5713/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM