APPENDIX 1  
AN INTRODUCTION TO UML 873that there are 0 or 1 objects on that end of the association. For example, each per-
son in the world has either a Social Security number or no such number (espe-
cially if they are not U.S. citizens), and so a multiplicity of 0..1 could be used in an 
association between a  Person  class and a  SocialSecurityNumber  class in a class diagram. A multiplicity speciﬁ ed by “1..*” means one or more, and a multiplicity 
speciﬁ ed by “0..*” or just “ * “ means zero or more. An * was used as the multiplic-
ity on the  OwnedObject  end of the association with class  Person  in   Figure A1.2 because a  Person  can own zero or more objects. 
 If one end of an association has multiplicity greater than 1, then the objects of the class referred to at that end of the association are probably stored in a col-
lection, such as a set or ordered list. One could also include that collection class 
itself in the UML diagram, but such a class is usually left out and is implicitly as-
sumed to be there due to the multiplicity of the association.  An  aggregation  is a special kind of association indicated by a hollow diamond on one end of the icon. It indicates a “whole/part” relationship, in that the class 
to which the arrow points is considered a “part” of the class at the diamond end 
of the association. A  composition  is an aggregation indicating strong ownership of the parts. In a composition, the parts live and die with the owner because they 
have no role in the software system independent of the owner. See   Figure A1.3 for examples of aggregation and composition.  
 A  College  has an aggregation of  Building  objects, which represent the build-ings making up the campus. The college also has a collection of courses. If the 
college were to fold, the buildings would still exist (assuming the college wasn’t 
physically destroyed) and could be used for other things, but a  Course  object has no use outside of the college at which it is being offered. If the college were to 
cease to exist as a business entity, the  Course  object would no longer be useful and so it would also cease to exist.  Another common element of a class diagram is a  note , which is represented by a box with a dog-eared corner and is connected to other icons by a dashed 
line. It can have arbitrary content (text and graphics) and is similar to a pro-
gramming language comment. It might contain information about the role of a 
class or constraints that all objects of that class must satisfy. If the contents are 
a constraint, braces surround the contents. Note the constraint attached to the 
 Course  class in   Figure A1.3.   
 F
IGURE A1.3The relation-
ship between 
Colleges, 
Courses, and 
Buildings   
 {must take place in a Building}CourseCollegeBuilding**