CHAPTER 17  
WEBAPP DESIGN 377should ﬁ rst use aesthetic design (Section 17.5) to establish a coherent “look.” This 
encompasses many characteristics, but must emphasize the layout and form of 
navigation mechanisms. To guide user interaction, you may draw on an appro-

priate metaphor  4 
 
 that enables the user to gain an intuitive understanding of the 
interface. To implement navigation options, you can select  
navigation menus 
 po-
sitioned consistently on Web pages,  
graphic icons 
 represented in a manner that 
enable a user to recognize that the icon is a navigation element, and/or  graphic images 
 that provide a link to a content object or WebApp functionality. 
 
 It is im-
portant to note that one or more of these navigation mechanisms should be pro-
vided at every level of the content hierarchy. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 17.5 A
ESTHETIC DESIGN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aesthetic design, also called  graphic design, 
 is an artistic endeavor that com-
plements the technical aspects of WebApp design. Without it, a WebApp may be 

functional, but unappealing. With it, a WebApp draws its users into a world that 

embraces them on a visceral, as well as an intellectual level.  But what is aesthetic? There is an old saying, “beauty exists in the eye of the beholder.” This is particularly appropriate when aesthetic design for WebApps is 

considered. To perform effective aesthetic design, return to the user hierarchy 

developed as part of the requirements model (Chapter 8) and ask,  
 “Who are the 
WebApp’s users and what “look” do they desire?” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  What 
interaction mechanisms 
are available 
to WebApp 

designers? ?  
4  In this context, a  
metaphor 
 is a representation (drawn from the user’s real-world experience) 
that can be modeled within the context of the interface. A simple example might be a slider 
switch that is used to control the auditory volume of an .mpg ﬁ le. 
 Not every Web 
engineer (or software 
engineer) has artistic 

(aesthetic) talent. 
If you fall into this 
category, hire an 

experienced graphic 
designer for aesthetic 
design work.   
Graphic Design   
Graphic Design  
 
The scene:  Doug Miller’s ofﬁ
 ce after 
the ﬁ rst web interface prototype review. 
  
The players:  Doug Miller (SafeHome software engi-
neering project manager) and Vinod Raman member of 
the  SafeHome 
 software engineering team.   
The conversation:    
Doug:  What’s your impression of new Web page design? 
  
Vinod:  I like it, but more importantly, our customers 
like it.   
Doug:  How much help did you get from the graphic 
designer we borrowed from marketing?   
Vinod:  A lot, actually. She has a great eye for page 
layout and suggested an awesome graphic theme for the pages. Much better than what we came up with on our own.   
Doug:  That’s good. Any issues? 
  
Vinod:  We still have to create alternate pages to take 
accessibility issues into account for some of our visually 
impaired users. But we would have had to do that for 
any Web page design we had. 
  
Doug:  Do we need graphic design help on the alterna-
tive pages as well?   
Vinod:  Sure. The designer has a good understanding 
of usability and accessibility issues.   
Doug:  OK, I‘ll ask marketing if we can borrow her a 
little longer. 
  
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   377pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   37713/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM