96 PART ONE  
THE SOFTWARE PROCESS
 
Begel [Beg10] and his colleagues address the growth and application of social media in software engineering when they write:  
. highly dependent on engi-
neers’ abilities to ﬁ nd and connect with individuals who share similar goals and com-
plementary skills, to harmonize each team member’s communication and teaming 

preferences, to collaborate and coordinate during the entire software lifecycle, and 
advocate for their product’s success in the marketplace. 
 
  
In some ways, this “connection” can be as important as face-to-face communi-cation. The value of social media grows as team size increases, and is magniﬁ ed 
further when the team is geographically dispersed.  First, a social network is deﬁ ned for a software project. Using the network, the 
software team can draw from the collective experience of team members, stake-
holders, technologists, specialists, and other businesspeople who have been in-
vited to participate in the network (if the network is private) or to any interested 
party (if the network is public). And it can do this whenever an issue, a question, 
or a problem arises. There are a number of different forms of social media and 
each has a place in software engineering work.  A  blog 
 can be used to post a series of short articles describing important as-
pects of a system or voicing opinions about system features or functions that 
are yet to be developed. It is also important to note that “software companies 
frequently use blogs to share technical information and opinions with their em-
ployees, and very proﬁ tably, with their customers, both internal and external.” 
[Beg10]    
Microblogs
 
 (e.g., Twitter) allow a member of a software engineering network to 
post short messages to followers who subscribe to them. Because the messages 
are instantaneous and can be read from all mobile platforms, dispersion of infor-

mation is close to real time. This enables a software team to call an impromptu 
meeting if an issue arises, to ask for specialized help if a problem occurs, or to 
inform stakeholders about some aspect of the project.   
Targeted on-line forums
 
 allow participants to post questions, opinions, case 
studies or any other relevant information. A technical question can be posted 
and within a few minutes, multiple “answers” are often available.   
Social networking sites 
 (e.g., Facebook, LinkedIn) allow degrees-of-separation 
connections among software developers and related technologists. This allows 
“friends” on a social networking site to learn about friends of friends who may 
have knowledge or expertise related to the application domain or problem to 
be solved. Specialized private networks built on the social networking paradigm 
can be used within an organization.  Most social media enables the formation of “communities” of users with sim-ilar interests. For example, a community of software engineers who specialize 
in real- time embedded systems might provide a useful way for an individual or  
 uote:  “If content is king, 
then conversation 
is queen.”  John Munsell 
pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   96pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   9613/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM