CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 139limited time to interact with the requirements engineer. None of these things are 
desirable, but all are fairly common, and you are often forced to work within the 
constraints imposed by this situation.  In the sections that follow, we discuss the steps required to establish the 
groundwork for an understanding of software requirements—to get the project 
started in a way that will keep it moving forward toward a successful solution.  
 
 
  
 
 
8.2.1  Identifying Stakeholders 
 
Sommerville and Sawyer [Som97] deﬁ ne a  
stakeholder 
 as “anyone who beneﬁ
 ts 
in a direct or indirect way from the system which is being developed.” We have 

already identiﬁ ed the usual suspects: business operations managers, product 
managers, marketing people, internal and external customers, end users, con-
sultants, product engineers, software engineers, support and maintenance engi-
neers, and others. Each stakeholder has a different view of the system, achieves 
different beneﬁ ts when the system is successfully developed, and is open to dif-
ferent risks if the development effort should fail.   At inception, you should create a list of people who will contribute input as requirements are elicited (Section 8.3). The initial list will grow as stakeholders 
are contacted because every stakeholder will be asked: “Whom else do you think 
I should talk to?”   
 
8.2.2  Recognizing Multiple Viewpoints 
 
Because many different stakeholders exist, the requirements of the system will be explored from many different points of view. For example, the marketing 

group is interested in functions and features that will excite the potential mar-

ket, making the new system easy to sell. Business managers are interested in a 
feature set that can be built within budget and that will be ready to meet deﬁ ned 
market windows. End users may want features that are familiar to them and that 
are easy to learn and use. Software engineers may be concerned with functions 
that are invisible to nontechnical stakeholders but that enable an infrastructure 
that supports more marketable functions and features. Support engineers may 
focus on the maintainability of the software.  Each of these constituencies (and others) will contribute information to the requirements engineering process. As information from multiple viewpoints is 
collected, emerging requirements may be inconsistent or may conﬂ ict with one 
another. You should categorize all stakeholder information (including inconsis-

tent and conﬂ icting requirements) in a way that will allow decision makers to 
choose an internally consistent set of requirements for the system.  There are several things that can make it hard to elicit requirements for soft-ware that satisﬁ es its users: project goals are unclear, stakeholders’ priorities 
differ, people have unspoken assumptions, stakeholders interpret meanings 

differently, and requirements are stated in a way that makes them difﬁ
 cult to 
 A  
stakeholder  is 
anyone who has a 
direct interest in 
or beneﬁ ts from 
the system that is 
to be developed.   uote:  “Put three 
stakeholders in 
a room and ask 
them what kind of 
system they want. 
You’re likely to 

get four or more 
different opinions.”  Author unknown 
pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   139pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   13913/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM