578 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26.4  
TEST ACROSS BORDERS  
 
 
Internationalization 
 is the process of creating a software product so that it can be 
used in several countries and with various languages without requiring any engi-
neering changes.  Localization 
 is the process of adapting a software application for 
use in targeted global regions by adding locale-speciﬁ c requirements and translat-
ing text elements to appropriate languages. Localization effort may involve taking 

each country’s currency, culture, taxes, and standards (both technical and legal) 

into account in addition to differences in languages [Sla12]. Launching a Mobile-
App in many parts of the world without testing it there would be very foolish. 
 Because it can be very costly to build an in-house testing facility in each coun-try for which localization is planned, outsourcing testing to local vendors in each 
country is often more cost effective [Reu12]. However, using an outsourcing ap-

proach risks a degradation of communication between the MobileApp develop-
ment team and those who are performing localization tests.   
Crowdsourcing
 
 has become popular in many online communities. 
 5 
 
 Revenui 
[Reu12] suggests that crowdsourcing could be used to engage localization testers 
dispersed around the globe outside of the development environment. To accom-

plish this, it is important to ﬁ nd a community that prides itself on its reputation 
and has a track record of successes. An easy-to-use real-time platform allows 
community members to communicate with the project decision makers. To pro-

tect intellectual property, only trustworthy community members who are willing 

to sign nondisclosure agreements are allowed to participate.   
 
 
 
 
 26.5  
REAL-TIME TESTING ISSUES  
 
Actual mobile devices have inherent limitations precipitated by the combination of hardware and ﬁ rmware delivered in the device. If the range of potential de-
vice platforms is large, it is expensive and time-consuming to perform Mobile-
App testing.  Mobile devices are not designed with testing in mind. Limited processing power and storage capacity may not allow loading of the diagnostic software 
needed to record the test-case performance. Emulated devices are often easier 
to manage and allow easier acquisition of test data.  Each mobile network (there are hundreds, worldwide) uses its own unique infrastructure to support the mobile Web. The Web proxies implemented by mo-

bile Web operators dictate how, when, and whether you can connect to speciﬁ
 c 
Web resources using their network. This can restrict the ﬂ
 ow of information that 
 
 
 uote:  ”The world is being 
re-shaped by the 
convergence of 
social, mobile, 
cloud, big data, 
community and 
other powerful 
forces. The 
combination of 
these technologies 
unlocks an 
incredible 
opportunity to 
connect everything 

together in a 
new way and 
is dramatically 
transforming the 
way we live and 
work.  Marc Benioff 
  5 
 
 Crowdsourcing
 
 is a distributed problem solving model where community members work on 
solutions to problems posted to the group. pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   578pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   57813/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM