650 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 29.5 S
UMMARY  
Software conﬁ guration management is an umbrella activity that is applied 
throughout the software process. SCM identiﬁ es, controls, audits, and reports 
modiﬁ cations that invariably occur while software is being developed and after 
it has been released to a customer. All work products created as part of software 

engineering become part of a software conﬁ guration. The conﬁ
 guration is orga-
nized in a manner that enables orderly control of change.  The software conﬁ guration is composed of a set of interrelated objects, also 
called software conﬁ guration items, that are produced as a result of some soft-
ware engineering activity. In addition to software engineering work products, 

the development environment that is used to create software can also be placed 
under conﬁ guration control. All SCIs are stored within a repository that imple-
ments a set of mechanisms and data structures to ensure data integrity, provide 

integration support for other software tools, support information sharing among 
all members of the software team, and implement functions in support of version 
and change control.  Once a conﬁ guration object has been developed and reviewed, it becomes a 
baseline. Changes to a baselined object result in the creation of a new version of 
that object. The evolution of a program can be tracked by examining the revision 
history of all conﬁ guration objects. Version control is the set of procedures and 
tools for managing the use of these objects.  Change control is a procedural activity that ensures quality and consistency as changes are made to a conﬁ guration object. The change control process be-
gins with a change request, leads to a decision to make or reject the request for 
change, and culminates with a controlled update of the SCI that is to be changed.  The conﬁ guration audit is an SQA activity that helps to ensure that quality is 
maintained as changes are made. Status reporting provides information about 
each change to those with a need to know. 
 Conﬁ guration management for Web and MobileApps is similar in most re-
spects to SCM for conventional software. However, each of the core SCM tasks 
 DOE SCM checklist:  
http://energy.gov/cio/
downloads/software-
quality-systems-
engineering-program-

software-conﬁ guration-management 
  BS-6488  British Std., Conﬁ
 guration 
Management of Computer-Based 

Systems  Best Practice—UK Ofﬁ
 ce of Government Commerce: 
  
http://www.cabinetofﬁ
 ce.gov.uk/content/ofﬁ
 ce-government-commerce-ogc  
  CMII Institute of CM Best Practices: 
  
www.icmhq.com 
 
  A  Conﬁ guration Management Resource Guide
 
 provides complementary information for those interested in CM 

processes and practice. It is available at   
http://cmpic.com/cmresourceguide.htm  
.  pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   650pre22126_ch29_623-652.indd   65013/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM