CHAPTER 37  
SOFTWARE PROCESS IMPROVEMENT
 825 
The difference between local application and best practice represents a “gap” that offers opportunities for improvement. The degree to which consistency, so-

phistication, acceptance, and commitment are achieved indicates the amount of 
cultural change that will be required to achieve meaningful improvement.   
 
 
37.2.2  Education and Training 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although few software people question the beneﬁ t of an agile, organized soft-
ware process or solid software engineering practices, many practitioners and 
managers do not know enough about either subject.  4   As a consequence, inaccu-
rate perceptions of process and practice lead to inappropriate decisions when 
an SPI framework is introduced. It follows that a key element of any SPI strategy 
is education and training for practitioners, technical managers, and more senior 
managers who have direct contact with the software organization. Three types 
of education and training should be conducted: generic software engineering 
concepts and methods, speciﬁ c technology and tools, and communication and 
quality-oriented topics. In a modern context, education and training can be de-
livered in a variety of different ways. Everything from podcasts, to short YouTube 

videos, to more comprehensive Internet-based training (e.g., [QAI08], to DVDs, to 
classroom courses can be offered as part of an SPI strategy. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
37.2.3   
Selection and Justiﬁ cation 
 
Once the initial assessment activity  5 
 
 has been completed and education has 
begun, a software organization should begin to make choices. These choices 
occur during a  selection and justiﬁ cation activity
 
 in which process characteris-
tics and speciﬁ c software engineering methods and tools are chosen to populate 
the software process.  First, you should choose the process model (Chapters 3–5) that best ﬁ ts your 
organization, its stakeholders, and the software that you build. You should decide 

which of the set of framework activities will be applied, the major work products 
that will be produced, and the quality assurance checkpoints that will enable 
your team to assess progress. If the SPI assessment activity indicates that you 
have speciﬁ c weaknesses (e.g., you have no formal SQA functions), you should 
focus attention on process characteristics that will address these weaknesses 
directly. 
 Next, develop an adaptable work breakdown for each framework activity (e.g., modeling), deﬁ ning the task set that would be applied for a typical project. You 
   Try to provide “just-in-
time” training targeted 
to the real needs of a 
software team.    As you make your 

choices, be sure to 
consider the culture of 
your organization and 
the level of acceptance 
that each choice will 
likely elicit.   
4  If you’ve spent time reading this book, you won’t be one of them! 
  
5  In actuality, assessment is an ongoing activity. It is conducted periodically in an effort to deter-
mine whether the SPI strategy has achieved its immediate goals and to set the stage for future 
improvement. pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   825pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   82513/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM