798 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
may not be around when changes must be made. Therefore, the design and im-plementation of the software must “assist” the person who is making the change.   
 
 
 
 36.2  
SOFTWARE
 SUPPORTABILITY
  
 
In order to effectively support industry-grade software, your organization (or its designee) must be capable of making the corrections, adaptations, and enhance-
ments that are part of the maintenance activity. But in addition, the organization 

must provide other important support activities that include ongoing opera-
tional support, end-user support, and reengineering activities over the complete 
life cycle of the software. A reasonable deﬁ nition of  
software supportability
 
 is  
 
 
the capability of supporting a software system over its whole product life. This im-
plies satisfying any necessary needs or requirements, but also the provision of equip-
ment, support infrastructure, additional software, facilities, manpower, or any other 

resource required to maintain the software operational and capable of satisfying its 
function. [SSO08]  
  
In essence, supportability is one of many quality factors that should be consid-ered during the analysis and design actions that are part of the software process. 
It should be addressed as part of the requirements model (or speciﬁ cation) and 
considered as the design evolves and construction commences.   
 
 
 
 
For example, the need to “antibug” software at the component and code level has been discussed previously in the book. The software should contain facili-
ties to assist support personnel when a defect is encountered in the operational 
environment (and make no mistake, defects  will 
 be encountered). In addition, 
support personnel should have access to a database that contains records of all 
defects that have already been encountered—their characteristics, cause, and 
cure. This will enable support personnel to examine “similar” defects and may 
provide a means for more rapid diagnosis and correction.  Although defects encountered in an application are a critical support issue, supportability also demands that resources be provided to support day-to-day 
end-user issues. The job of end-user support personnel is to answer user queries 
about the installation, operation, and use of the application.    
 
 
 
36.3  REENGINEERING  
 
In a seminal article written for the  Harvard Business Review,
 
 Michael Hammer 
[Ham90] laid the foundation for a revolution in management thinking about busi-
ness processes and computing:  
It is time to stop paving the cow paths. Instead of embedding outdated processes in silicon and software, we should obliterate them and start over. We should “reengi-

neer” our businesses: use the power of modern information technology to radically  WebRef 
 A wide array of 
downloadable docu-
ments on software 
supportability can be 

found at   
www .software-
supportability

.org/

Downloads
.html  . 
pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   798pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   79813/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM