CHAPTER 32  
PROCESS AND PROJECT METRICS 723measures. A detailed discussion of these steps is best left to the SEI’s guidebook. 
However, a brief overview of key points is worthwhile. 
  
 
 
 
 
Because software supports business functions, differentiates computer-based 
systems or products, or acts as a product in itself, goals deﬁ ned for the busi-
ness can almost always be traced downward to speciﬁ c goals at the software 
engineering level. For example, consider the  SafeHome 
 product. Working as a 
team, software engineering and business managers develop a list of prioritized 
 business goals:   
 
 
1.  Improve our customers’ satisfaction with our products.   
 
 
 2.
  Make our products easier to use.   
 
 
 3.
  Reduce the time it takes us to get a new product to market.   
 
 
 4.
  Make support for our products easier. 
  
 
 
 5.
  Improve our overall proﬁ tability. 
    
The software organization examines each business goal and asks: “What ac-tivities do we manage, execute, or support and what do we want to improve 

within these activities?” To answer these questions the SEI recommends the 

creation of an “entity-question list” in which all things (entities) within the 

software process that are managed or influenced by the software organiza-
tion are noted. Examples of entities include development resources, work 

products, source code, test cases, change requests, software engineering 

tasks, and schedules. For each entity listed, software people develop a set of 

questions that assess quantitative characteristics of the entity (e.g., size, cost, 

time to develop). The questions derived as a consequence of the creation of 

an entity-question list lead to the derivation of a set of subgoals that relate 

directly to the entities created and the activities performed as part of the 

software process. 
 Consider the fourth goal: “Make support for our products easier.” The follow-
ing list of questions might be derived for this goal [Par96b]:   
 
 
•  Do customer change requests contain the information we require to ade-quately evaluate the change and then implement it in a timely manner?   
 
 
•  How large is the change request backlog?   
 
 
•  Is our response time for ﬁ xing bugs acceptable based on customer need? 
  
 
 
•  Is our change control process (Chapter 29) followed?   
 
 
•  Are high-priority changes implemented in a timely manner?  
 
  Based on these questions, the software organization can derive the following sub-goal:  Improve the performance of the change management process.
 
 The software 
process entities and attributes that are relevant to the subgoal are identiﬁ ed, 
and the measurement goals associated with them are delineated.    The software metrics 
you choose should be 
driven by the business 
and technical goals you 
wish to accomplish. pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   723pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   72313/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM