CHAPTER 36  
MAINTENANCE AND REENGINEERING 799redesign our business processes in order to achieve dramatic improvements in their performance.  
 
 
  
 
The hype associated with reengineering waned, but the process itself contin-ues in companies large and small. The nexus between business reengineering 
and software engineering lies in a “system view.” 
 As managers work to modify business rules to achieve greater effectiveness and competitiveness, software must keep pace. In some cases, this means the 
creation of major new computer-based systems. 
 2 
 
 But in many others, it means 
the modiﬁ cation or rebuilding of existing applications. 
 
 
  In the sections that follow, we examine reengineering in a top-down manner, 
beginning with a brief overview of business process reengineering and proceed-
ing to a more detailed discussion of the technical activities that occur when soft-
ware is reengineered.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 36.4  
BUSINESS PROCESS REENGINEERING  
 
Business process reengineering (BPR) extends far beyond the scope of informa-tion technologies and software engineering. Among the many deﬁ nitions (most 
somewhat abstract) that have been suggested for BPR is one published in  Fortune 
 magazine [Ste93]: “[T]he search for, and the implementation of, radical change in 

business process to achieve breakthrough results.” But how is the search con-
ducted, and how is the implementation achieved? More important, how can we 
ensure that the “radical change” suggested will in fact lead to “breakthrough 
results” instead of organizational chaos?   
 
36.4.1   
Business Processes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A business process is “a set of logically related tasks performed to achieve a deﬁ ned business outcome” [Dav90]. Within the business process, people, equip-
ment, material resources, and business procedures are combined to produce a 
speciﬁ ed result. Examples of business processes include designing a new prod-
uct, purchasing services and supplies, hiring a new employee, and paying sup-
pliers. Each demands a set of tasks, and each draws on diverse resources within 
the business.  Every business process has a deﬁ ned customer—a person or group that re-
ceives the outcome (e.g., an idea, a report, a design, a service, a product). In 
addition, business processes cross organizational boundaries. They require that 
different organizational groups participate in the “logically related tasks” that 
deﬁ ne the process. 
 
 uote:  “To face tomorrow 
with the thought of 
using the methods 
of yesterday is to 
envision life at a 
standstill.”  James Bell 
   BPR often results in 

new software function-
ality, whereas software 

reengineering works to 
replace existing soft-
ware functionality with 
better, more maintain-

able software.    As a software engi-

neer, your work occurs 

at the bottom of this 
hierarchy. Be sure, 

however, that some-

one has given serious 
thought to the level 
above. If this hasn’t 
been done, your work 
is at risk.   
2  The explosion of Web and mobile applications and systems is indicative of this trend. 
pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   799pre22126_ch36_795-816.indd   79913/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM