140 PART TWO  
MODELINGverify [Ale11]. The goal of effective requirements engineering is to eliminate or 
at least reduce these problems. 
  
 
8.2.3  Working toward Collaboration 
 
If ﬁ ve stakeholders are involved in a software project, you may have ﬁ
 ve (or 
more) different opinions about the proper set of requirements. Throughout ear-

lier chapters, we have noted that customers (and other stakeholders) should 
collaborate among themselves (avoiding petty turf battles) and with software en-
gineering practitioners if a successful system is to result. But how is this collab-
oration accomplished?  The job of a requirements engineer is to identify areas of commonality (i.e., requirements on which all stakeholders agree) and areas of conﬂ ict or inconsis-
tency (i.e., requirements that are desired by one stakeholder but conﬂ ict with the 
needs of another stakeholder). It is, of course, the latter category that presents 
a challenge.   
Using “Priority Points”  
One way of resolving conﬂ icting require-
ments and at the same time better under-
standing the relative importance of all requirements is 

to use a “voting” scheme based on  priority points. 
 All stakeholders are provided with some number of priority 
points  
 that can be “spent” on any number of require-ments. A list of requirements is presented, and each stakeholder indicates the relative importance of each 
(from his or her viewpoint) by spending one or more 
priority points on it. Points spent cannot be reused. Once 
a stakeholder’s priority points are exhausted, no further 

action on requirements can be taken by that person. 
Overall points spent on each requirement by all stake-
holders provide an indication of the overall importance 

of each requirement.   
INFO  
 
 
 
 
 
Collaboration does not necessarily mean that requirements are deﬁ ned by 
committee. In many cases, stakeholders collaborate by providing their view of 
requirements, but a strong “project champion” (e.g., a business manager or a se-
nior technologist) may make the ﬁ nal decision about which requirements make 
the cut.   
 
8.2.4  Asking the First Questions 
  
Questions asked at the inception of the project should be “context free” [Gau89]. The ﬁ rst set of context-free questions focuses on the customer and other stake-
holders, the overall project goals and beneﬁ ts. For example, you might ask:
 
 
 
 
•  Who is behind the request for this work?   
 
 
•  Who will use the solution?   
 
 
•  What will be the economic beneﬁ t of a successful solution? 
  
 
 
•  Is there another source for the solution that you need?   
 uote:  “It is better to 
know some of the 
questions than all 
of the answers.”  James Thurber 
pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   140pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   14013/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM