418 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19.2.3   
ISO 9126 Quality Factors  
The ISO 9126 standard was developed in an attempt to identify the key qual-ity  attributes for computer software. The standard identiﬁ es six key quality 
attributes:   
 
 
Functionality.
 
 The degree to which the software satisﬁ es stated needs as 
indicated by the following subattributes: suitability, accuracy, interopera-

bility, compliance, and security. 
  
Reliability.
 
 
 
 The amount of time that the software is available for use as indicated by the following subattributes: maturity, fault tolerance, 

recoverability. 
  
Usability 
 
. 
 The degree to which the software is easy to use as indicated by the following subattributes: understandability, learnability, operability. 
  
Efﬁ ciency.
 
 
 
 The degree to which the software makes optimal use of  system resources as indicated by the following subattributes: time behavior, 

 resource behavior. 
  
Maintainability.
 
 The ease with which repair may be made to the software as indicated by the following subattributes: analyzability, changeability, 

stability, testability. 
  
Portability.
 
 
 
 The ease with which the software can be transposed from one environment to another as indicated by the following subattributes: adapt-
ability, installability, conformance, replaceability. 
 Like other software quality factors discussed in the preceding subsections, the ISO 9126 factors do not necessarily lend themselves to direct measurement. 
However, they do provide a worthwhile basis for indirect measures and an excel-

lent checklist for assessing the quality of a system.   
 
 
 
19.2.4   
Targeted Quality Factors 
 
The quality dimensions and factors presented in Sections 19.2.1 and 19.2.2 focus on the software as a whole and can be used as a generic indication of the quality 
of an application. A software team can develop a set of quality characteristics 
and associated questions that would probe the degree to which each factor has 
been satisﬁ ed. 
 3 
 
 For example, McCall identiﬁ
 es  
usability 
 as an important qual-
ity factor. If you were asked to review a user interface and assess its usability, 

how would you proceed? You might start with the subattributes suggested by 

 McCall— understandability, learnability, and operability—but what do these 
mean in a pragmatic sense?   
 
 
 uote:  “Any activity 
becomes creative 
when the doer 
cares about doing 
it right, or better.” 
 John Updike 
   Although it’s tempting 

to develop quantitative 
measures for the qual-
ity factors noted here, 
you can also create 
a simple checklist of 
attributes that provide 
a solid indication that 
the factor is present.  3 These characteristics and questions would be addressed as part of a software review 
 
pre22126_ch19_411-430.indd   418pre22126_ch19_411-430.indd   41813/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM