CHAPTER 37  
SOFTWARE PROCESS IMPROVEMENT
 827 
 
 
 
37.2.5   
Evaluation  
Although it is listed as the last activity in the SPI road map,  evaluation 
 occurs 
throughout SPI. The evaluation activity assesses the degree to which changes 
have been instantiated and adopted, the degree to which such changes result in 
better software quality or other tangible process beneﬁ ts, and the overall status 
of the process and the organizational culture as SPI activities proceed.  Both qualitative factors and quantitative metrics are considered during the evaluation activity. From a qualitative point of view, past management and prac-

titioner attitudes about the software process can be compared to attitudes polled 
after installation of process changes. Quantitative metrics (Chapter 32) are col-
lected from projects that have used the transitional or “to be” process and com-
pared with similar metrics that were collected for projects that were conducted 
under the “as is” process.   
 
 
37.2.6   
Risk Management for SPI  
 
 
 
 
 
SPI is a risky undertaking. In fact, more than half of all SPI efforts end in failure. The reasons for failure vary greatly and are organizationally speciﬁ c. Among the 
most common risks are: a lack of management support, cultural resistance by 
technical staff, a poorly planned SPI strategy, an overly formal approach to SPI, 

selection of an inappropriate process, a lack of buy-in by key stakeholders, an in-
adequate budget, a lack of staff training, organizational instability, and a myriad 

of other factors. The role of those chartered with the responsibility for SPI is to 
analyze likely risks and develop an internal strategy for mitigating them.  A software organization should manage risk at three key points in the SPI process [Sta97b]: prior to the initiation of the SPI road map, during the execution 
of SPI activities (assessment, education, selection, installation), and during the 
evaluation activity that follows the instantiation of some process characteristic. 
In general, the following categories [Sta97b] can be identiﬁ ed for SPI risk factors: 
budget and cost, content and deliverables, culture, maintenance of SPI deliver-

ables, mission and goals, organizational management, organizational stability, 

process stakeholders, schedule for SPI development, SPI development environ-
ment, SPI development process, SPI project management, and SPI staff.  Within each category, a number of generic risk factors can be identiﬁ
 ed. For 
example, the organizational culture has a strong bearing on risk. The following 
generic risk factors  
6   can be deﬁ ned for the culture category [Sta97b]:
 
 
 
 
 
•  Attitude toward change, based on prior efforts to change   
 
 
•  Experience with quality programs, level of success     SPI often fails because 
risks were not properly 
considered and no 
contingency planning 
occurred. 
  
6  Risk factors for each of the risk categories noted in this section can be found in [Sta97b]. 
pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   827pre22126_ch37_817-838.indd   82713/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM