CHAPTER 8  
UNDERSTANDING REQUIREMENTS
 163process. Seven distinct requirements engineering functions—inception, elicita-tion, elaboration, negotiation, speciﬁ cation, validation, and management—are 
conducted by members of the software team.  At project inception, stakeholders establish basic problem requirements, de-ﬁ ne overriding project constraints, and address major features and functions 
that must be present for the system to meet its objectives. This information is 
reﬁ ned and expanded during elicitation—a requirements gathering activity that 
makes use of facilitated meetings, QFD, and the development of usage scenarios.  Elaboration further expands requirements in a model—a collection of scenar-
io-based, activity-based, class-based, behavioral, and ﬂ ow-oriented elements. 
The model may reference analysis patterns, characteristics of the problem do-
main that have been seen to reoccur across different applications.  As requirements are identiﬁ ed and the requirements model is being created, 
the software team and other project stakeholders negotiate the priority, avail-

ability, and relative cost of each requirement. The intent of this negotiation is to 

develop a realistic project plan. In addition, each requirement and the require-
ments model as a whole are validated against customer need to ensure that the 
right system is to be built.   
 
  P
ROBLEMS AND POINTS TO PONDER  
 
 
 
8.1.  Why is it that many software developers don’t pay enough attention to requirements engineering? Are there ever circumstances where you can skip it?    
 
8.2.  You have been given the responsibility to elicit requirements from a customer who tells 
you he is too busy to meet with you. What should you do?    
 
8.3.  Discuss some of the problems that occur when requirements must be elicited from three or four different customers.    
 
8.4.  Why do we say that the requirements model represents a snapshot of a system in time?    
 
8.5.  Let’s assume that you’ve convinced the customer (you’re a very good salesperson) to 
agree to every demand that you have as a developer. Does that make you a master negoti-

ator? Why?    
 
8.6.  Develop at least three additional “context-free questions” that you might ask a stake-holder during inception.    
 
8.7.  Develop a requirements-gathering “kit.” The kit should include a set of guidelines for conducting a requirements-gathering meeting and materials that can be used to facilitate 
the creation of lists and any other items that might help in deﬁ ning requirements. 
   
 
8.8.  Your instructor will divide the class into groups of four or six students. Half of the group 
will play the role of the marketing department and half will take on the role of software en-
gineering. Your job is to deﬁ
 ne requirements for the  
SafeHome 
 security function described in this chapter. Conduct a requirements-gathering meeting using the guidelines presented 

in this chapter. 
   
 
8.9.  Develop a complete use case for one of the following activities:   
 
 
 a.  
Making a withdrawal at an ATM. 
   
 
 b.  
Using your charge card for a meal at a restaurant.  pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   163pre22126_ch08_131-165.indd   16313/12/13   6:11 PM13/12/13   6:11 PM