CHAPTER 6  
HUMAN ASPECTS OF SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
 89 
 
 
 
 6.2 T
HE   
PSYCHOLOGY 
 
 OF SOFTWARE
 ENGINEERING  
 
In a seminal paper on the psychology of software engineering, Bill Curtis and 
Diane Walz [Cur90] suggest a layered behavioral model for software development 

( 6.1 
). At an individual level, software engineering psychology focuses on rec-ognition of the problem to be solved, the problem-solving skills required to solve it, 

and the motivation to complete the solution within the constraints established by 

outer layers in the model. At the team and project levels, group dynamics becomes 

the dominating factor. Here, team structure and social factors govern success. 

Group communication, collaboration, and coordination are as important as the 

skills of an individual team member. At the outer layers, organizational behavior 

governs the actions of the company and its response to the business milieu. 
  At the team level, Sawyer and his colleagues [Saw08] suggest that teams often establish artiﬁ cial boundaries that reduce communication and, as a consequence, 
reduce the team effectiveness. They suggest a set of “boundaries spanning roles” 
that allow members of a software team to effectively move across team boundar-

ies. The following   
roles  
 may be assigned explicitly or can evolve naturally. 
 
 
 
 
•   
Ambassador 
—represents the team to outside constituencies with the intent of negotiating time and resources and gaining feedback from 
stakeholders.   
 
 
•   
Scout 
—crosses the team’s boundary to collect organizational information. 
“Scouting can include scanning about external markets, searching for new  What roles 
do members of a software 
team play? ?Business milieuCompany
ProjectTeam
IndividualSoftware
Problem
Organizationalbehavior
GroupdynamicsCognitionandmotivation
  
FIGURE 6.1 
A layers behavioral 
model for 
software 

engineering 
(adapted from 

[Cur90])  
 pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   89pre22126_ch06_087-102.indd   8913/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM