CHAPTER 27  
SECURITY ENGINEERING 593 
 
 
 
 
 
27.4.2   
Organization and Management 
 
The rush to get software out the door quickly often forces project managers to 
be more concerned with features and functions than security. Software engi-

neers should focus on robustness in software design and architecture, but, in 

addition, secure practices should be adopted as software-based systems are 

built [Sob10]. 
 Security assurance and risk identiﬁ cation activities are planned, managed, 
and tracked in the same way as other software engineering activities. The soft-
ware team collects data (e.g., number of access violations, number of system fail-
ures, number of data records lost) to determine what works and what does not. 
This requires developers to analyze each reported failure (to determine whether 
its cause is related to a system vulnerability) and then assess the asset exposure 
that resulted.   
 
Building the Security Case    
 
Building the Security Case   
 
The scene:  Software engineering 
team workspace.   
The players:  Jamie Lazar, software team member; 
Vinod Raman, software team member; Ed Robbins, 
software team member, Bridget Thornton, software 

quality group leader. 
  
The conversation:    
Ed:  Thanks for joining us Bridget, we need to build the 
security case for  SafeHome 
 project.   
Vinod:  How should we get started? 
  
Bridget:  We might start by picking one security 
concern and see what evidence we can ﬁ
 nd to support 
the case for it.   
Ed:  What kind of evidence? 
  
Bridget:  Let’s pick one of the security concerns ﬁ
 rst. 
  
Vinod:  Let’s focus on security concerns related to the 
customer database.   
Bridget:  OK, let’s start by listing the security claims 
made for accessing the database.   
Jamie:  Do you mean the security model elements that 
refer to the database?   
Bridget:  Yes. Next, we take a look at the completed 
inspection checklists and the summaries of the formal 

technical reviews that have been happening as each 
project milestone is completed.   
Ed:  What about the process audits and change request 
documents produced by your group?   
Bridget:  Those are important to include as well. 
  
Vinod:  We used an ITG to create and run most of the 
system test cases.   
Bridget:  A summary of the behavior of the security test 
cases comparing expected and actual output is a very 

important part of the security case. 
  
Jamie:  That seems like a lot of information to get a 
handle on.   
Bridget:  It is. That’s why the next step is to take each 
claim made for database security and summarize the 
evidence supporting or refuting the claim of adequate 

asset protection.   
Ed:  Can you help us review our security case when it’s 
assembled?   
Bridget:  Of course. My group needs to have an 
ongoing dialog with your team as this project moves 
forward, both pre- and post-launch. 
  
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   593pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   59316/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM