CHAPTER 1  
THE NATURE OF SOFTWARE
 5To accomplish that, it’s important to examine the characteristics of software that 
make it different from other things that human beings build. Software is a logical 
rather than a physical system element. Therefore, software has one fundamen-
tal characteristic that makes it considerably different from hardware:  Software 
doesn’t “wear out.”
 
   
 
 
 
Figure 1.1  depicts failure rate as a function of time for hardware. The relation-
ship, often called the “bathtub curve,” indicates that hardware exhibits relatively 
high failure rates early in its life (these failures are often attributable to design 
or manufacturing defects); defects are corrected and the failure rate drops to a 
steady-state level (hopefully, quite low) for some period of time. As time passes, 

however, the failure rate rises again as hardware components suffer from the 

cumulative effects of dust, vibration, abuse, temperature extremes, and many 
other environmental maladies. Stated simply, the hardware begins to  
wear out. 
 
  Software is not susceptible to the environmental maladies that cause hard-ware to wear out. In theory, therefore, the failure rate curve for software should 

take the form of the “idealized curve” shown in  Figure 1.2 . Undiscovered defects will cause high failure rates early in the life of a program. However, these are 

corrected and the curve ﬂ attens as shown. The idealized curve is a gross over-
simpliﬁ cation of actual failure models for software. However, the implication is 
clear—software doesn’t wear out. But it does  deteriorate! 
 
  This seeming contradiction can best be explained by considering the actual curve in  Figure 1.2 . During its life,  2 
 
 software will undergo change. As changes are 
   If you want to reduce 
software deterioration, 
you’ll have to do 
better software design 
( Chapters 12  to  18 ). 
ﬁWear outﬂ
ﬁInfantmortalityﬂ
TimeFailure rate  
FIGURE 1.1 
Failure curve 
for hardware 
 
  
 
2  
In fact, from the moment that development begins and long before the ﬁ rst version is delivered, 
changes may be requested by a variety of different stakeholders. pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   5pre22126_ch01_001-013.indd   513/12/13   10:00 PM13/12/13   10:00 PM