CHAPTER 26  
TESTING MOBILEAPPS 575the user interface portion of the MobileApp. There is more to building a good MobileApp user interface than simply shrinking the size of a user interface from 
an existing personal computer application.  
 
 
  
 
 
MobileApp Usability Testing Components 
  
A number of recommendations for key com-ponents MobileApp usability testing have been presented in the MobileApp Testing Blog. 
 3 
 
 
  
 
 
 
•   
Functionality 
—Ensure that core functionality is supported by the user stories and takes stakeholder 

goals and expectations into account.   
 
 
•   
Information architecture 
.—Make sure that content and links have been structured and 
presented in a logical manner, taking chunking 
 4 
 
 and perspectives into account.   
 
 
•   
Content 
—Use text, video, images, and multimedia only when it supports the user task in a mobile 

context, give user control over whether to start media 

or not, make sure the content is presented in mobile 
device format. 
  
 
 
•   
Design 
—Design for quick visual scanning of screen, consider both portrait and landscape display 

orientations, rethink the screen layout, do not just 
shrink it.   
 
 
•   
User input 
—Make it easy for users to enter data, offer auto completion and spell checking, display default values, offer alternate input mechanisms 
based on individual device capabilities.   
 
 
•   
Mobile context 
—Account for changes in context (time of day, location, networks) and use device 

features and capabilities to anticipate and support 

the user’s context of use. 
  
 
 
•   
Usability 
—Ensure that interaction devices (touch 
screens, keyboards, audio) and widgets (buttons, links, 

scrollbar) work well together on all targeted devices, 

follow conventions, and reduce the learning curve. 
  
 
 
•   
Trustworthiness
 
—Be sensitive to privacy and security, do not collect personal information without 

explicit user permission, allow user to control how 

personal info is shared and state your business 
practices.   
 
 
•   
Feedback 
—Get important information to your 
users, minimize number of alerts, make alerts brief 

and informative, provide conﬁ
 rmation of user actions 
without disrupting user’s workﬂ
 ow. 
  
 
 
•   
Help 
—Make it easy for users to access help and support options, offer contextual help. 
  
  
INFO  
 
3  The blog can be found at  
http://www.mobileapptesting.com/10-key-components-of-successful-
mobile-app-usability/2012/09/ 
   
 
 
 
 
4   Chunking 
 is the practice of breaking up hypermedia documents into smaller groupings of re-
lated information to allow faster assimilation by the reader. 
   
 
26.3.1   
Gesture Testing  
Touch screens are very popular on mobile devices and, as a consequence, de-
velopers have added multitouch gestures (e.g., swiping, zooming, scrolling, se-
lection) as a means augmenting the user interaction possibilities without losing 
screen real estate. Unfortunately, gesture-intensive interfaces present a number 

of testing challenges.  It is difﬁ cult to use automated tools to test touch or gesture interface actions. 
Gestures are hard to log accurately for replay. The location of screen objects is 

affected by screen size and resolution, as well as previous user actions. Paper 
prototypes, sometimes developed as part of design, cannot be used to adequately pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   575pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   57513/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM