696 PART FOUR  
MANAGING SOFTWARE PROJECTS
tasks associated with each cell, and work products to be produced as a conse-quence of each task. These activities are considered in Chapter 26.        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31.4.2   
Process Decomposition 
 
A software team should have a signiﬁ cant degree of ﬂ
 exibility in choosing the 
software process model that is best for the project and the software engineering 

tasks that populate the process model once it is chosen. A relatively small project 

that is similar to past efforts might be best accomplished using the linear sequen-
tial approach. If the deadline is so tight that full functionality cannot reasonably be 

delivered, an incremental strategy might be best. Similarly, projects with other char-

acteristics (e.g., uncertain requirements, breakthrough technology, difﬁ
 cult custom-
ers, signiﬁ cant reuse potential) will lead to the selection of other process models. 
 6   
  Once the process model has been chosen, the process framework is adapted to it. In every case, the generic process framework discussed earlier can be used. 
It will work for linear models, for iterative and incremental models, for evolu-
tionary models, and even for concurrent or component assembly models. The 
process framework is invariant and serves as the basis for all work performed by 
a software organization.  But actual work tasks do vary. Process decomposition commences when the 
project manager asks, “How do we accomplish this framework activity?” For ex-
ample, a small, relatively simple project might require the following work tasks 
for the communication activity:  
 
 
 1.
  Develop list of clariﬁ cation issues. 
  
 
 
 2.
  Meet with stakeholders to address clariﬁ cation issues. 
  
 
 
 3.
  Jointly develop a statement of scope.   
 
 
 4.
  Review the statement of scope with all concerned.   
 
 
 5.
  Modify the statement of scope as required.  
 
  These events might occur over a period of less than 48 hours. They represent a process decomposition that is appropriate for the small, relatively simple project.  Now, consider a more complex project, which has a broader scope and more 
signiﬁ cant business impact. Such a project might require the following work 
tasks for the  communication 
: 
 
 
 
 1.
  Review the customer request.   
 
 
 2.
  Plan and schedule a formal, facilitated meeting with all stakeholders.   
 
 
 3.
  Conduct research to specify the proposed solution and existing approaches. 
  
 
 
 4.
  Prepare a “working document” and an agenda for the formal meeting.     The process framework 
establishes a skeleton 
for project planning. 
It is adapted by allo-
cating a task set that 
is appropriate to the 
project.   
6  Recall that project characteristics also have a strong bearing on the structure of the software 
team (Section 31.2.3). pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   696pre22126_ch31_683-702.indd   69613/12/13   6:16 PM13/12/13   6:16 PM