CHAPTER 20  
REVIEW TECHNIQUES 443that is uncontrolled can often be worse than no review at all. The following rep-resents a minimum set of guidelines for formal technical reviews:  
 
 
 1.
   
Review the product, not the producer.
 
 An FTR involves people and egos. Conducted properly, the FTR should leave all participants with a warm 

feeling of accomplishment. Conducted improperly, the FTR can take on 

the aura of an inquisition. Errors should be pointed out gently; the tone of 
the meeting should be loose and constructive; the intent should not be to 
embarrass or belittle. The review leader should conduct the review meet-
ing to ensure that the proper tone and attitude are maintained and should 
immediately halt a review that has gotten out of control.  
  
 
 
 2.
   
Set an agenda and maintain it. 
 One of the key maladies of meetings of all types is drift. An FTR must be kept on track and on schedule. The review 
leader is chartered with the responsibility for maintaining the meeting 
schedule and should not be afraid to nudge people when drift sets in.   
 
 
 3.
   
Limit debate and rebuttal.
 
 When an issue is raised by a reviewer, there may 
not be universal agreement on its impact. Rather than spending time debat-
ing the question, the issue should be recorded for further discussion off-line. 
  
 
 
 4.
   
Enunciate problem areas, but don't attempt to solve every problem noted.
 
 A review is not a problem-solving session. The solution of a problem can 
often be accomplished by the producer alone or with the help of only one 
other individual. Problem solving should be postponed until after the re-
view meeting.   
 
 
 5.
   
Take written notes.
 
 It is sometimes a good idea for the recorder to make notes on a wall board, so that wording and priorities can be assessed by 
other reviewers as information is recorded. Alternatively, notes may be 

entered directly into a notebook computer. 
  
 
 
 6.
   
Limit the number of participants and insist upon advance preparation.
 
 Two heads are better than one, but 14 are not necessarily better than 4. 

Keep the number of people involved to the necessary minimum. However, 

all review team members must prepare in advance. Written comments 

should be solicited by the review leader (providing an indication that the 
reviewer has reviewed the material).   
 
 
 7.
   
Develop a checklist for each product that is likely to be reviewed.
 
 A check-list helps the review leader to structure the FTR meeting and helps each 
reviewer to focus on important issues. Checklists should be developed for 
analysis, design, code, and even testing work products.   
 
 
 8.
   
Allocate resources and schedule time for FTRs.
 
 For reviews to be effective, they should be scheduled as a task during the software process. In addi-
tion, time should be scheduled for the inevitable modiﬁ cations that will 
occur as the result of an FTR.     Don’t point out errors 
harshly. One way to be 

gentle is to ask a ques-
tion that enables the 
producer to discover 
the error. 
  
 
 uote:  “A meeting is too 
often an event in 
which minutes are 
taken and hours 
are wasted.”  Author unknown 
pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   443pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   44313/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM