CHAPTER 5  
AGILE DEVELOPMENT 69speciﬁ cation can be edited. The costs of doing this work are minimal, and the 
time required will not adversely affect the outcome of the project. But what if we 
fast-forward a number of months? The team is in the middle of validation testing 
(something that occurs relatively late in the project), and an important stake-
holder is requesting a major functional change. The change requires a modiﬁ -cation to the architectural design of the software, the design and construction 
of three new components, modiﬁ cations to another ﬁ
 ve components, the design 
of new tests, and so on. Costs escalate quickly, and the time and cost required 

to ensure that the change is made without unintended side effects is nontrivial.    
 
 
 
 
Proponents of agility (e.g., [Bec00], [Amb04]) argue that a well-designed agile 
process “ﬂ attens” the cost of change curve ( 
Figure 5.1 , shaded, solid curve), allowing 
a software team to accommodate changes late in a software project without dra-
matic cost and time impact. You’ve already learned that the agile process encom-

passes incremental delivery. When incremental delivery is coupled with other agile 

practices such as continuous unit testing and pair programming (discussed later 

in this chapter), the cost of making a change is attenuated. Although debate about 

the degree to which the cost curve ﬂ attens is ongoing, there is evidence [Coc01a] to 
suggest that a signiﬁ cant reduction in the cost of change can be achieved. 
 
 
 
 
 5.3 W
HAT
 IS AN   
AGILE PROCESS 
 
?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any agile software process is characterized in a manner that addresses a num-ber of key assumptions [Fow02] about the majority of software projects:   
 
 1.  It is difﬁ cult to predict in advance which software requirements will per-
sist and which will change. It is equally difﬁ cult to predict how customer 
priorities will change as the project proceeds.     An agile process 
reduces the cost 
of change because 
software is released in 
increments and change 
can be better controlled 
within an increment.   uote:  “Agility is dynamic, 
content speciﬁ c, 

aggressively 
change embracing, 
and growth 
oriented.”  Steven Goldman 
et al. Cost of changeusing conventional
software processesCost of changeusing agile processesIdealized cost of changeusing agile processDevelopment schedule progress
Development cost  
FIGURE 5.1 
Change costs as a function 
of time in 
development  
 pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   69pre22126_ch05_066-086.indd   6913/12/13   6:10 PM13/12/13   6:10 PM