CHAPTER 15  
USER INTERFACE DESIGN
 323implementers of the system create an  implementation model 
. Unfortunately, each 
of these models may differ signiﬁ cantly. Your role, as an interface designer, is to 
reconcile these differences and derive a consistent representation of the interface. 
  The user model establishes the proﬁ le of end users of the system. In his intro-
ductory column on “user-centric design,” Jeff Patton [Pat07] notes:
  
The truth is, designers and developers—myself included—often think about users. However, in the absence of a strong mental model of speciﬁ
 c users, we self-substitute. 
Self-substitution isn’t user centric—it’s self-centric. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
To build an effective user interface, “all design should begin with an under-
standing of the intended users, including proﬁ les of their age, gender, physical 
abilities, education, cultural or ethnic background, motivation, goals and person-
ality” [Shn04]. In addition, users can be categorized as novices, knowledgeable, 
intermittent users, or knowledgeable frequent users.  The user’s  
mental model 
 (system perception) is the image of the system that 
end users carry in their heads. For example, if the user of a mobile app that rates 
restaurants were asked to describe its operation, the system perception would 
guide the response. The accuracy of the description will depend on the user’s 

proﬁ le (e.g., novices would provide a sketchy response at best) and overall famil-
iarity with software in the application domain. A user who understands restau-
rant rating apps fully but has worked with the speciﬁ c app only a few times might 
actually be able to provide a more complete description of its function than the 
novice who has spent days trying to apply the app effectively. 
  The  implementation model 
 combines the outward manifestation of the com-
puter-based system (the look and feel of the interface), coupled with all support-

ing information (books, manuals, videotapes, help ﬁ les) that describes interface 
syntax and semantics. When the implementation model and the user’s mental 

model are coincident, users generally feel comfortable with the software and 
use it effectively. To accomplish this “melding” of the models, the design model 

must have been developed to accommodate the information contained in the 
user model, and the implementation model must accurately reﬂ ect syntactic and 
semantic information about the interface.   
 
15.2.2  The Process 
 
 
 
 
  
The analysis and design process for user interfaces is iterative and can be repre-sented using a spiral model similar to the one discussed in Chapter 4. Referring to 

 Figure 15.1 , the user interface analysis and design process begins at the interior of the 
spiral and encompasses four distinct framework activities [Man97]: (1) interface anal-
ysis and modeling, (2) interface design, (3) interface construction, and (4) interface 

validation. The spiral shown in  Figure 15.1  implies that each of these tasks will occur 
more than once, with each pass around the spiral representing additional elabora-
tion of requirements and the resultant design. In most cases, the construction activity 

involves prototyping—the only practical way to validate what has been designed. 
    Even a novice user 
wants shortcuts; even 

knowledgeable, fre-
quent users sometimes 
need guidance. Give 
them what they need.   uote:  “If there’s a ‘trick’ 
to it, the UI is 
broken.”  Douglas 
Anderson   uote:  “[P]ay attention to 
what users do, not 
what they say.” 
 Jakob Nielsen 
pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   323pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32313/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM