216 PART TWO  
MODELING 
 
 
•   
Interaction model 
—describes the manner in which users interact with   
 
 
•   
Functional model 
—deﬁ nes the operations that will be applied to manip-
ulate content and describes other processing functions that are indepen-
dent of content but necessary to the end user. 
  
 
 
•   
Navigation model 
—deﬁ nes the overall navigation strategy for the app. 
  
 
 
•   
Conﬁ guration model
 
—describes the environment and infrastructure in which the app resides.  
 
  You can develop each of these models using a representation scheme (often 
called a “language”) that allows its intent and structure to be communicated and 
evaluated easily among members of the engineering team and other stakehold-
ers. As a consequence, a list of key issues (e.g., errors, omissions, inconsistencies, 
suggestions for enhancement or modiﬁ cation, points of clariﬁ
 cation) are identi-
ﬁ ed and acted upon. 
 
 
 
11.5.4  Content Model 
 
The content model contains structural elements that provide an important view 
of content requirements for an application. These structural elements encompass 

content objects and all  analysis classes 
—user-visible entities that are created or 
manipulated as a user interacts with the app through a browser or a mobile device.  9 
 
   
Content can be developed prior to the implementation of the app, while the app is being built, or long after the app is operational. In every case, it is incorpo-
rated via navigational reference into the overall application structure. A  content object 
 might be a textual description of a product, an article describing a news 
event, a graphical representation of retrieved data (e.g., stock price as a func-
tion of time), an action photograph taken at a sporting event, a user’s response 

on a discussion forum, an animated representation of a corporate logo, a short 
video of a speech, or an audio overlay for a collection of presentation slides. The 
content objects might be stored as separate ﬁ les or obtained dynamically from 
a database. They might be embedded directly into Web pages, displayed on the 

screen of a mobile device. In other words, a content object is any item of cohesive 
information that is to be presented to an end user. 
 Content objects can be determined directly from use cases by examining the scenario description for direct and indirect references to content. For example, a 
WebApp that supports  
SafeHome 
 is established at  
www.safehomeassured.com. 
 A use case,  Purchasing Select SafeHome Components,
 
 describes the scenario 
 required to purchase a  SafeHome 
 component and contains the sentence: 
 
I will be able to get descriptive and pricing information for each product component.  
  
 
9  Analysis classes were discussed in Chapter 10. 
pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   216pre22126_ch11_202-223.indd   21613/12/13   6:12 PM13/12/13   6:12 PM