CHAPTER 17  
WEBAPP DESIGN 381 
 
 
 
 
 
As content objects are designed, they are “chunked” [Pow02] to form WebApp 
pages. The number of content objects incorporated into a single page is a func-
tion of user needs, constraints imposed by download speed of the Internet con-
nection, and restrictions imposed by the amount of scrolling that the user will 
tolerate.   
 
 
 
 
 17.7  
ARCHITECTURE DESIGN  
 
 
Architecture design is tied to the goals established for a WebApp, the content 
to be presented, the users who will visit, and the navigation philosophy that has 
been established. As an architectural designer, you must identify content archi-

tecture and WebApp architecture.  
Content architecture
 
 
 7 
 
 focuses on the manner 
in which content objects (or composite objects such as Web pages) are structured 

for presentation and navigation.  WebApp architecture
 
 addresses the manner in 
which the application is structured to manage user interaction, handle internal 
processing tasks, effect navigation, and present content.   In most cases, architecture design is conducted in parallel with interface de-sign, aesthetic design, and content design. Because the WebApp architecture 

may have a strong inﬂ uence on navigation, the decisions made during this design 
action will inﬂ uence work conducted during navigation design. 
 
 
17.7.1  Content Architecture 
 
The design of content architecture focuses on the deﬁ nition of the overall hy-
permedia structure of the WebApp. Although custom architectures are some-

times created, you always have the option of choosing from four different content 
structures [Pow02]:  
 
 
 
   
 
Linear structures
 
 ( 
Figure 17.4 ) are encountered when a predictable sequence of interactions (with some variation or diversion) is common. A classic example 
might be a tutorial presentation in which pages of information along with related 
graphics, short videos, or audio are presented only after prerequisite informa-
tion has been presented. The sequence of content presentation is predeﬁ ned and 
generally linear. Another example might be a product order entry sequence in 

which speciﬁ c information must be speciﬁ
 ed in a speciﬁ
 c order. In such cases, 
the structures shown in  Figure 17.4  are appropriate. As content and processing 
become more complex, the purely linear ﬂ ow shown on the left of the ﬁ
 gure gives 
way to more sophisticated linear structures in which alternative content may be 
invoked or a diversion to acquire complementary content (structure shown on 
the right side of  Figure 17.4 ) occurs.  What types 
of content architectures 
are commonly 
encountered? ? Users tend to tolerate 

vertical scrolling more 

readily than horizontal 
scrolling. Avoid wide 

page formats. 
  uote:  ”[T]he architectural 
structure of a well 
designed site is not 
always apparent 
to the user—nor 
should it be.”  Thomas Powell 
  
7  The term  
information architecture
 
 is also used to connote structures that lead to better organi-
zation, labeling, navigation, and searching of content objects. pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   381pre22126_ch17_371-390.indd   38113/12/13   6:13 PM13/12/13   6:13 PM