672 PART 
THREE  QUALITY MANAGEMENT[Chu95] discuss this when they state: “Results of recent studies indicate that 
methods tend to be small, both in terms of number of statements and in logi-
cal complexity [Wil93], suggesting that connectivity structure of a system may be 

more important than the content of individual modules.” However, some insights 

can be gained by examining average characteristics for methods (operations). 
Three simple metrics, proposed by Lorenz and Kidd [Lor94], are appropriate:   
Average operation size (OS
avg).  
   Size can be determined by counting the number of lines of code or the number of messages sent by the operation. 
As the number of messages sent by a single operation increases, it is likely 
that responsibilities have not been well allocated within a class. 
  
Operation complexity (OC).  
   The complexity of an operation can be  computed using any of the complexity metrics proposed for conventional 

software [Zus90]. Because operations should be limited to a speciﬁ c  responsibility, the designer should strive to keep OC as low as possible. 

  
Average number of parameters per operation (NP
avg).  
   The larger the number of operation parameters, the more complex the collaboration 
 between objects. In general, NP
avg should be kept as low as possible.     
30.3.8   User Interface Design Metrics 
 Although there is signiﬁ cant literature on the design of human/computer inter-

faces (Chapter 15), relatively little information has been published on metrics 
that would provide insight into the quality and usability of the interface.   
A study of Web page metrics [Ivo01] indicates that simple characteristics of 
the elements of the layout can also have a signiﬁ cant impact on the perceived 

quality of the GUI design. The number of words, links, graphics, colors, and fonts 
(among other characteristics) contained within a Web page affect the perceived 

complexity and quality of that page.  Although UI metrics may be useful in some cases, the ﬁ nal arbiter should be 
user input based on GUI prototypes. Nielsen and Levy [Nie94] report that “one 
has a reasonably large chance of success if one chooses between interface [de-
signs] based solely on users’ opinions. Users’ average task performance and their 
subjective satisfaction with a GUI are highly correlated.”       
 30.4  DESIGN METRICS FOR WEB AND MOBILE APPS   
A useful set of measures and metrics for WebApps provides quantitative answers 

to the following questions:    •
  Does the user interface promote usability?  
   •
  Are the aesthetics of the WebApp appropriate for the application domain 

and pleasing to the user?  
    uote: 
 “You can learn at 

least one principle 
of user interface 
design by loading 
a dishwasher. If 

you crowd a lot in 
there, nothing gets 
very clean.” 
 Author unknown 
