567 TESTINGMOBILEAPPS   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The same sense of urgency that drives WebApp projects also pervades 
MobileApp projects. Stakeholders are worried that they will miss a 
market window and press to get the MobileApp into the store. Technical 
activities that often occur late in the process, such as performance and secu-
rity testing, are sometimes given short shrift. Usability testing that should 
occur during the design phase may end up being deferred until just before 
delivery. These can be catastrophic mistakes. To avoid this situation, you and 

other team members must ensure that each work product exhibits high qual-
ity. A white paper posted by Soasta [Soa11] summarizes this:
  
Mobile technology is simply ramping up faster than other technologies in the past—it may be the fastest adoption curve in history. And this has important impli-

cations for your business model. You’ve got to be fast to market but also prepared 

for rapid adoption. If your application performs poorly, or fails under load, many 

competitors are ready to take your place—the barriers to entry are low. 
  
 
MobileApp requirements and design models cannot be tested solely with executable test cases. You and your team should conduct technical reviews
  
What is it?   MobileApp testing is a collection of related activities with 
a single goal: to uncover errors in 
MobileApp content, function, us-ability, navigability, performance, capacity, 

and security. To accomplish this, a testing strat-

egy that encompasses both reviews and exe-
cutable testing is applied.   
 
Who does it?   Software engineers and other project stakeholders (managers, customers, 
end users) all participate in MobileApp testing. 
  
 
Why is it important? 
  If end users encounter errors or difﬁ culties within the MobileApp, they 
will go elsewhere for the personalized content 
and function they need. For this reason, you 
must work to ﬁ nd and correct as many errors 
as possible before the MobileApp is placed in 
an app store or repository. 
  
 
What are the steps?   The MobileApp testing 
process begins by focusing on user-visible 
aspects of the MobileApp and proceeds 
to testing of technology and infrastructure. 

Several testing steps are performed: content 

testing, interface testing, navigation testing, 

component testing, conﬁ guration testing, 
 performance testing, and security testing. 
  
 
What is the work product? 
  A MobileApp test plan is often produced. A suite of test 
cases is developed for each testing step and 
an  archive of test results is maintained for  future use.   
 
How do I ensure that I’ve done it right?   Al-though you can never be sure that you’ve per-

formed every test that is needed, you can be 

certain that testing has uncovered errors (and 

that those errors have been corrected). In ad-
dition, if you’ve established a test plan, you 
can check to ensure that all planned tests have 
been conducted.   
QUICK LOOK  KEY CONCEPTS     automation. . . . . . 571  
    checklist. . . . . . . . 570  

    guidelines. . . . . . . 568  

    internationalization. 578  

    real-time testing. . 578  

    strategies. . . . . . . 569  

    stress testing  . . . . 573  

    testing-in-the-wild  .573  

    test matrix. . . . . . 572  

    tools and 

environments  . . . . 579  

          usability testing  . . 575    
  
 
 
CHAPTER26 pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   567pre22126_ch26_567-583.indd   56713/12/13   6:15 PM13/12/13   6:15 PM