588 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENTand to take responsible steps to prevent its loss. Online data repositories are very attractive sources for data mining (e.g., to collect demographic or market-
ing information). The problem is that the originator of the data has not given his 
explicit consent [Rya11a]. Policy makers should create policies and regulations 
to ensure that service providers do not abuse the trust of their users.  The boundary between the “trusted inside” and “untrusted outside” blurs when 
a company adopts cloud computing. With the organization’s applications and data 

no longer on site, a new type of malicious insider is possible. Conﬁ dential data are 
only a few commands away from access by a malicious or incompetent system ad-
ministrator. Most cloud service providers have strict procedures in place for mon-

itoring employee access to customer data. Policies preventing physical access to 

data are not effective against remote attacks, and monitoring often only detects an 

attack after it happens. To foster user trust in a cloud system, it may be important 

to provide users with the ability to assess whether the necessary mechanisms for 

protecting conﬁ dentiality and privacy are in place [Roc11]. 
 The ubiquity of Web access and the advent of cloud computing has enabled 
new forms of business collaborations. Sharing information and protecting con-
ﬁ dentiality is a difﬁ
 cult task. Secure multiparty computing raises the risks of 
selﬁ sh behavior unless all parties are conﬁ
 dent no one can take advantage of the 
systems. This situation highlights a psychological dimension of system trust and 
security that cannot be solved by software engineering alone [Ker11].   
 
 
27.2.4   
The Internet of Things 
 
Some visionaries describe an “Internet of Things” [Rom11] in which everything real has a virtual counterpart on the Internet. These virtual entities can produce 
and consume services and collaborate toward a common goal. For example, a us-
er’s phone knows about the user’s physical and mental state through a network 

of surrounding devices that can act on the user’s behalf. Automotive engineers 

envision cars that communicate autonomously with other vehicles, data sources, 
and devices and do not require direct driver control.  However, security is one of the major obstacles that stand in the way of this vision. 
Without strong security foundations, attacks and malfunctions will outweigh any of 

the beneﬁ ts realized by an Internet of things. Policy makers must consider the bal-
ance between governance and innovation. Excessive governance can easily hinder 

innovation, and in turn, innovation can inadvertently ignore human rights [Rom11]. 
  
 
 
 
 
 27.3  
SECURITY ENGINEERING ANALYSIS
  
 
Security analysis tasks include requirements elicitation, threats modeling, risk analysis, measures design, and correctness checks. These tasks include consid-
eration of both the functional and nonfunctional details of the system along with 
its business case [Bre03]. pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   588pre22126_ch27_584-600.indd   58816/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM