CHAPTER 18  
MOBILEAPP DESIGN 403 
 
 
•   
Support user expectations for personalization. 
 Mobile device users expect 
to be able to personalize everything. At the very least, developers should 

try to allow users to set their location (or detect it automatically) and  select 
content options that may be available at that location. It is important to 

indicate to users what features can be personalized and how users can 

 personalize them. 
  
 
 
•   
Long scrolling forms trump multiple screens on mobile devices. 
 Experi-enced mobile device users want all information on a single input screen 
even if this requires scrolling. Novice users often become experienced 
quickly and will grow tired of multiple input screens.    
Developing native applications for multiple device platforms can be costly and time-consuming. Development costs can be reduced by using technologies fa-
miliar to Web developers (e.g., JavaScript, CSS, and HTML) to create MobileApps 

that will be accessed using a Web browser on the mobile device. Open webOS 
 20 
 
 is 
a device-independent platform intended to allow this type of development.    
 
 
 
 
 18.4  
MOBILITY ENVIRONMENTS  
 
The sidebar contains pointers to several tools that can be used to develop  MobileApps for popular platforms. Each has its own advantages and disadvan-tages.  21 
 
 Some use technologies that are restricted to a single manufacturer’s 
 devices (e.g., iOS and Objective C). Some platforms are licensed to several man-ufacturers (e.g., Android and Java or Windows 8 and C#). Some are open source 

and designed to work on many devices (e.g., webOS and Enyo). Each platform has 
its own rules for marketing and distribution and each varies in the degree to 
which it supports speciﬁ c application technologies such as gaming. 
 
 
 
 
  Choosing a platform (or platforms) requires careful thought by mobile devel-opers. Sometimes the platform(s) chosen will be dictated by the customer’s busi-

ness goals. In other situations platform choices will be determined by the device 
features they support or hardware limitations that exist. Yuan [Yua02] uses the 

following criteria to assess several  mobile interactive development environments
 
 (MIDEs):  
 
 
•   
General productivity features 
. The MIDE should contain tools to support editing, project management, debugging, architectural design, documen-
tation, and unit testing.   How should 
I go about choosing mobility 
environments and 
platforms? ?  
20  Information on webOS can be found at  
 
https://developer.palm.com 
 
   
21  Further discussion can be found at  
 
http://www.cs.colorado.edu/~kena/classes/5828/s10/
presentations/software_engineering_mobile.pdf  
 pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   403pre22126_ch18_391-410.indd   40316/12/13   6:23 PM16/12/13   6:23 PM