CHAPTER 32  
PROCESS AND PROJECT METRICS 715measures derived over a number of projects. Among the measures that can be collected are the following:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of static Web pages.
 
 These pages represent low relative com-
plexity and generally require less effort to construct than dynamic pages. 
This measure provides an indication of the overall size of the application 
and the effort required to develop it.    
 
 
 
 
 
Number of dynamic Web pages.
 
 These pages represent higher relative 
complexity and require more effort to construct than static pages. This 
measure provides an indication of the overall size of the application and 
the effort required to develop it.    
 
 
 
 
 
Number of internal page links. 
 This measure provides an indication of 
the degree of architectural coupling within the WebApp. As the number of 

page links increases, the effort expended on navigational design and con-
struction also increases.    
 
 
 
 
 
Number of persistent data objects. 
 As the number of persistent data 
objects (e.g., a database or data ﬁ le) grows, the complexity of the WebApp 
also grows and the effort to implement it increases proportionally. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Number of external systems interfaced. 
 As the requirement for interfac-
ing grows, system complexity and development effort also increase.    
 
 
 
 
 
Number of static content objects. 
 These objects represent low relative com-
plexity and generally require less effort to construct than dynamic pages. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Number of dynamic content objects. 
 These objects represent higher rela-
tive complexity and require more effort to construct than static pages.    
 
 
 
 
Number of executable functions. 
 As the number of executable functions 
(e.g., a script or applet) increases, modeling and construction effort also 
increase.    
Each of the preceding measures can be determined at a relatively early stage. For example, you can deﬁ ne a metric that reﬂ
 ects the degree of end-user customi-
zation that is required for the WebApp and correlate it to the effort expended on 

the project and/or the errors uncovered as reviews and testing are conducted. 
To accomplish this, you deﬁ
 ne
 N sp 5 number of static Web pages
 N dp  5 number of dynamic Web pages 
 Then,Customization index,  C 
 5    
N dp _________ (  N dp 1  N sp)  
  The value of  C 
 ranges from 0 to 1. As C grows larger, the level of WebApp custom-
ization becomes a signiﬁ cant technical issue. 
pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   715pre22126_ch32_703-726.indd   71513/12/13   6:17 PM13/12/13   6:17 PM