490 PART THREE  
QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
 
 5.
  The symptom may be a result of timing problems, rather than processing problems.   
 
 
 6.
  It may be difﬁ cult to accurately reproduce input conditions (e.g., a re-
al-time application in which input ordering is indeterminate).   
 
 
 7.
  The symptom may be intermittent. This is particularly common in embed-ded systems that couple hardware and software inextricably. 
  
 
 
 8.
  The symptom may be due to causes that are distributed across a number of tasks running on different processors.  
 
 
  During debugging, we encounter errors that range from mildly annoying (e.g., an incorrect output format) to catastrophic (e.g., the system fails, causing seri-
ous economic or physical damage). As the consequences of an error increase, 
the amount of pressure to ﬁ nd the cause also increases. Often, pressure forces 
a software developer to ﬁ x one error and at the same time introduce two more. 
 
 
 
 
22.9.2   
Psychological Considerations  
Unfortunately, there appears to be some evidence that debugging prowess is an 
innate human trait. Some people are good at it and others aren’t. Although ex-
perimental evidence on debugging is open to many interpretations, large vari-
ances in debugging ability have been reported for programmers with the same 
education and experience. Although it may be difﬁ cult to “learn” debugging, a 
number of approaches to the problem can be proposed. We examine them in 

Section 22.9.3.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 uote:  “Everyone knows 
that debugging is 
twice as hard as 
writing a program 
in the ﬁ rst place. 

So if you are as 
clever as you can 
be when you write 
it, how will you 
ever debug it?”  Brian Kernighan 
   Set a time limit, say 

two hours, on the 
amount of time you 
spend trying to debug 

a problem on your 
own. After that, get 
help!   
Debugging   
Debugging  
 
The scene:  Ed’s cubical as code 
and unit testing is conducted.   
The players:  Ed and Shakira—members of the  
Safe-Home 
 software engineering team.   
The conversation:    
Shakira (looking in through the entrance to the cubical):  
  
Ed:  Right 
  
Shakira:  Ys the matter? 
  
Ed (sighing audibly):  I’ve been working on this bug 
since I discovered it at 9:30 this morning and it’s what, 

  
Shakira:  I thought we all agreed to spend no more 
than one hour debugging stuff on our own; then we get 
help, right?   
Ed:  Yeah, 
  
Shakira (walking into the cubical):  So what’s the 
problem?   
Ed:  It’s complicated, and besides, I’ve been looking 
at this for, what, 5 hours. You’re not going to see it in 

  
Shakira:  s the problem? 
 [Ed explains the problem to Shakira, who looks at it   
Shakira (a smile is gathering on her face):  Uh, 
right there, the variable named  setAlarmCondition.
  Shouldn’t it be set to “false” before the loop gets started? 
 [Ed stares at the screen in disbelief, bends forward, 
and begins to bang his head gently against the monitor. 

Shakira, smiling broadly now, stands and walks out.] 
  
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch22_466-495.indd   490pre22126_ch22_466-495.indd   49013/12/13   6:14 PM13/12/13   6:14 PM