CHAPTER 20  
REVIEW TECHNIQUES 441 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.6 F
ORMAL TECHNICAL REVIEWS  
 
A  formal technical review
 
 (FTR) is a software quality control activity performed by 
software engineers (and others). The objectives of an FTR are: (1) to uncover er-

rors in function, logic, or implementation for any representation of the software; 
(2) to verify that the software under review meets its requirements; (3) to ensure 
that the software has been represented according to predeﬁ ned standards; (4) to 
achieve software that is developed in a uniform manner; and (5) to make projects 
more manageable. In addition, the FTR serves as a training ground, enabling ju-
nior engineers to observe different approaches to software analysis, design, and 
implementation. The FTR also serves to promote backup and continuity because 
a number of people become familiar with parts of the software that they may not 
have otherwise seen.   The FTR is actually a class of reviews that includes  walkthroughs
 
 and  
inspec-tions. 
 Each FTR is conducted as a meeting and will be successful only if it is prop-
erly planned, controlled, and attended. In the sections that follow, guidelines 

similar to those for a walkthrough are presented as a representative formal tech-
nical review. If you have interest in software inspections, as well as additional 

information on walkthroughs, see [Rad02], [Wie02], or [Fre90]. 
  
 
20.6.1   
The Review Meeting  
Regardless of the FTR format that is chosen, every review meeting should abide by the following constraints:  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
•  Between three and ﬁ ve people (typically) should be involved in the review. 
  
 
 
•  Advance preparation should occur but should require no more than two hours of work for each person.   
 
 
•  The duration of the review meeting should be less than two hours.    
Given these constraints, it should be obvious that an FTR focuses on a speciﬁ c 
(and small) part of the overall software. For example, rather than attempting 
to review an entire design, walkthroughs are conducted for each component or 
small group of components. By narrowing the focus, the FTR has a higher likeli-
hood of uncovering errors.  
 
 
   
The focus of the FTR is on a work product (e.g., a portion of a requirements model, a detailed component design, source code for a component). The indi-
vidual who has developed the work product—the  producer
 
—informs the proj-ect leader that the work product is complete and that a review is required. The 
project leader contacts a  review leader,
 
 who evaluates the product for readiness, 
generates copies of product materials, and distributes them to two or three  re-
viewers 
 for advance preparation. Each reviewer is expected to spend between 
one and two hours reviewing the product, making notes, and otherwise becoming  WebRef 
 The NASA SATC  
Formal 
Inspection Guidebook  

can be downloaded 
from   
http://www.everyspec.com/

NASA/NASA-
General/NASA-
GB-A302_2418/  .
    An FTR focuses on a 
relatively small portion 

of a work product.   uote:  “There is no urge 
so great as for 
one man to edit 
another man's 
work.”  Mark Twain 
pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   441pre22126_ch20_431-447.indd   44113/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM