320 PART TWO  
MODELINGthe user with an interaction scenario that assists recall. Mandel [Man97] deﬁ nes 
design principles that enable an interface to reduce the user’s memory load:
  
 
 
 
 
Reduce demand on short-term memory.
 
 When users are involved in complex 
tasks, the demand on short-term memory can be signiﬁ cant. The interface 
should be designed to reduce the requirement to remember past actions, 

inputs, and results. This can be accomplished by providing visual cues that 

enable a user to recognize past actions, rather than having to recall them. 
   
 
 
 
Establish meaningful defaults. 
 The initial set of defaults should make sense for the average user, but a user should be able to specify individual 

preferences. However, a “reset” option should be available, enabling the 

redeﬁ nition of original default values. 
   
 
 
 
Deﬁ ne shortcuts that are intuitive.
 
 When mnemonics are used to accom-plish a system function (e.g., alt-P to invoke the  print 
 function), the mne-monic should be tied to the action in a way that is easy to remember (e.g., 
ﬁ rst letter of the task to be invoked). 
   
 
 
 
The visual layout of the interface should be based on a real-world met-aphor.
 
 For example, a bill payment system should use a checkbook and check register metaphor to guide the user through the bill paying process. 
This enables the user to rely on well-understood visual cues, rather than 
memorizing an arcane interaction sequence.    
 
 
 
Disclose information in a progressive fashion. 
 The interface should be organized hierarchically. That is, information about a task, an object, or 

some behavior should be presented ﬁ rst at a high level of abstraction. 
More detail should be presented after the user indicates interest.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Violating a UI Golden Rule  
 
Violating a UI Golden Rule 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scene:  Vinod’s cubicle, as user 
interface design begins. 
   
 
 
 
The players:  Vinod and Jamie, members of the 
 SafeHome 
 software engineering team.    
 
 
 
The conversation:  
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  I’ve been thinking about the surveillance 
 function interface. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod (smiling):  Thinking is good. 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  I think maybe we can simplify matters some. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  Meaning? 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  Well, what if we eliminate the ﬂ
 oor plan entirely. 
It’s ﬂ
 ashy, but it’s going to take serious development effort. 
Instead we just ask the user to specify the camera he wants 

to see and then display the video in a video window. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  How does the homeowner remember how 
many cameras are set up and where they are?    
 
 
 
Jamie (mildly irritated):  He’s the homeowner; he 
should know. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  But what if he doesn’t? 
   
 
 
 
Jamie:  He should. 
   
 
 
 
Vinod:  That’. what if he forgets? 
  
SAFEHOME pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   320pre22126_ch15_317-346.indd   32013/12/13   10:01 PM13/12/13   10:01 PM