· Is adaptable and elements of an interaction that are likely to change should be isolated so that they can be easily modified. · Is understandable and should be straightforward, involving no hacks, hidden side effects, or obscure semantics. When you draw an interaction in the UML · Choose an emphasis for the interaction. You can emphasize either the ordering of messages over time or the sequencing of messages in the context of some structural organization of objects. You can't do both at the same time. · Show only those properties of each object (such as attribute values, role, and state) that are important to understanding the interaction in its context. · Show only those properties of each message (such as its parameters, concurrency semantics, and return value) that are important to understanding the interaction in its context. Chapter 16. Use Cases In this chapter · Use cases, actors, include, and extend · Modeling the behavior of an element · Realizing use cases with collaborations No system exists in isolation. Every interesting system interacts with human or automated actors that use that system for some purpose, and those actors expect that system to behave in predictable ways. A use case specifies the behavior of a system or a part of a system and is a description of a set of sequences of actions, including variants, that a system performs to yield an observable result of value to an actor. You apply use cases to capture the intended behavior of the system you are developing, without having to specify how that behavior is implemented. Use cases provide a way for your developers to come to a common understanding with your system's end users and domain experts. In addition, use cases serve to help validate your architecture and to verify your system as it evolves during development. As you implement your system, these use cases are realized by collaborations whose elements work together to carry out each use case. Well-structured use cases denote essential system or subsystem behaviors only, and are neither overly general nor too specific. Getting Started A well-designed house is much more than a bunch of walls thrown together to hold up a roof that keeps out the weather. When you work with your architect to design your house, you'll give strong consideration to how you'll use that house. If you like entertaining, you'll want to think about the flow of people through your family room in a way that facilitates conversation and avoids dead ends that result in bunching. As you think about preparing meals for your family, you'll want to make sure your kitchen is designed for efficient placement of storage and appliances. Even plotting the path from your car to the kitchen in order to unload groceries will affect how you eventually connect rooms to one another. If you have a large family, you'll want to give thought to bathroom usage. Planning for the right number and right placement of bathrooms early on in the 