One of the purposes for which you'll use collaborations is to model the realization of a use case. You'll typically drive the analysis of your system by identifying your system's use cases, but when you finally turn to implementation, you'll need to realize these use cases with concrete structures and behaviors. In general, every use case should be realized by one or more collaborations. For the system as a whole, the classifiers involved in a given collaboration that is linked to a use case will participate in other collaborations, as well. In this way, the structural contents of collaborations tend to overlap one another. To model the realization of a use case, · Identify those structural elements necessary and sufficient to carry out the semantics of the use case. · Capture the organization of these structural elements in class diagrams. · Consider the individual scenarios that represent this use case. Each scenario represents a specific path through the use case. · Capture the dynamics of these scenarios in interaction diagrams. Use sequence diagrams if you want to emphasize the time ordering of messages. Use collaboration diagrams if you want to emphasize the structural relationships among these objects as they collaborate. · Organize these structural and behavioral elements as a collaboration that you can connect to the use case via realization. For example, Figure 27-5 shows a set of use cases drawn from a credit card validation system, including the primary use cases Place order and Generate bill, together with two other subordinate use cases, Detect card fraud and Validate transaction. Although most of the time you won't need to model this relationship explicitly (but will leave it up to your tools), this figure explicitly models the realization of Place order by the collaboration Order management. In turn, this collaboration can be further expanded into its structural and behavioral aspects, leading you to class diagrams and interaction diagrams. It is through the realization relationship that you connect a use case to its scenarios. Figure 27-5 Modeling the Realization of a Use Case 