You use activity diagrams to model the dynamic aspects of a system. These dynamic aspects may involve the activity of any kind of abstraction in any view of a system's architecture, including classes (which includes active classes), interfaces, components, and nodes. When you use an activity diagram to model some dynamic aspect of a system, you can do so in the context of virtually any modeling element. Typically, however, you'll use activity diagrams in the context of the system as a whole, a subsystem, an operation, or a class. You can also attach activity diagrams to use cases (to model a scenario) and to collaborations (to model the dynamic aspects of a society of objects). When you model the dynamic aspects of a system, you'll typically use activity diagrams in two ways. 1. To model a workflow Here you'll focus on activities as viewed by the actors that collaborate with the system. Workflows often lie on the fringe of software-intensive systems and are used to visualize, specify, construct, and document business processes that involve the system you are developing. In this use of activity diagrams, modeling object flow is particularly important. 2. To model an operation Here you'll use activity diagrams as flowcharts, to model the details of a computation. In this use of activity diagrams, the modeling of branch, fork, and join states is particularly important. The context of an activity diagram used in this way involves the parameters of the operation and its local objects. Common Modeling Techniques Modeling a Workflow Modeling the context of a system is discussed in Chapter 17. No software-intensive system exists in isolation; there's always some context in which a system lives, and that context always encompasses actors that interact with the system. Especially for mission critical, enterprise software, you'll find automated systems working in the context of higher-level business processes. These business processes are kinds of workflows because they represent the flow of work and objects through the business. For example, in a retail business, you'll have some automated systems (for example, point-of-sale systems that interact with marketing and warehouse systems), as well as human systems (the people that work at each retail outlet, as well as the telesales, marketing, buying, and shipping departments). You can model the business processes for the way these various automated and human systems collaborate by using activity diagrams. Modeling the vocabulary of a system is discussed in Chapter 4 ; preconditions and postconditions are discussed in Chapter 9. To model a workflow, · Establish a focus for the workflow. For nontrivial systems, it's impossible to show all interesting workflows in one diagram. · Select the business objects that have the high-level responsibilities for parts of the overall workflow. These may be real things from the vocabulary of the system, or they may be more abstract. In either case, create a swimlane for each important business object. 