 Terms and Concepts A statechart diagram shows a state machine, emphasizing the flow of control from state to state. A state machine is a behavior that specifies the sequences of states an object goes through during its lifetime in response to events, together with its responses to those events. A state is a condition or situation in the life of an object during which it satisfies some condition, performs some activity, or waits for some event. An event is the specification of a significant occurrence that has a location in time and space. In the context of state machines, an event is an occurrence of a stimulus that can trigger a state transition. A transition is a relationship between two states indicating that an object in the first state will perform certain actions and enter the second state when a specified event occurs and specified conditions are satisfied. An activity is ongoing nonatomic execution within a state machine. An action is an executable atomic computation that results in a change in state of the model or the return of a value. Graphically, a statechart diagram is a collection of vertices and arcs. Common Properties The general properties of diagrams are discussed in Chapter 7. A statechart diagram is just a special kind of diagram and shares the same common properties as do all other diagrams#that is, a name and graphical contents that are a projection into a model. What distinguishes a statechart diagram from all other kinds of diagrams is its content. Contents Simple states, composite states, transitions, events, and actions are discussed in Chapter 21; activity diagrams are discussed in Chapter 19. Statechart diagrams commonly contain · Simple states and composite states · Transitions, including events and actions Note A statechart diagram is basically a projection of the elements found in a state machine. This means that statechart diagrams may contain branches, forks, joins, action states, activity states, objects, initial states, final states, history states, and so on. Indeed, a statechart diagram may contain any and all features of a state machine. What 