· Is not so minimalist as to misinform the reader about semantics that are important. When you draw a use case diagram, · Give it a name that communicates its purpose. · Lay out its elements to minimize lines that cross. · Organize its elements spatially so that behaviors and roles that are semantically close are laid out physically close. · Use notes and color as visual cues to draw attention to important features of your diagram. · Try not to show too many kinds of relationships. In general, if you have complicated include and extend relationships, take these elements to another diagram. Chapter 18. Interaction Diagrams In this chapter · Modeling flows of control by time ordering · Modeling flows of control by organization · Forward and reverse engineering Activity diagrams, statechart diagrams, and use case diagrams are three other kinds of diagrams used in the UML for modeling the dynamic aspects of systems; activity diagrams are discussed in Chapter 19; statechart diagrams are discussed in Chapter 24; use case diagrams are discussed in Chapter 17. Sequence diagrams and collaboration diagrams#both of which are called interaction diagrams#are two of the five diagrams used in the UML for modeling the dynamic aspects of systems. An interaction diagram shows an interaction, consisting of a set of objects and their relationships, including the messages that may be dispatched among them. A sequence diagram is an interaction diagram that emphasizes the time ordering of messages; a collaboration diagram is an interaction diagram that emphasizes the structural organization of the objects that send and receive messages. You use interaction diagrams to model the dynamic aspects of a system. For the most part, this involves modeling concrete or prototypical instances of classes, interfaces, components, and nodes, along with the messages that are dispatched among them, all in the context of a scenario that illustrates a behavior. Interaction diagrams may stand alone to visualize, specify, construct, and document the dynamics of a particular society of objects, or they may be used to model one particular flow of control of a use case. Interaction diagrams are not only important for modeling the dynamic aspects of a system, but also for constructing executable systems through forward and reverse engineering. Getting Started When you watch a movie projected from film or broadcast on television, your mind actually plays tricks on you. Instead of seeing continuous motion as you would in live action, you really see a series of static images played back to you fast enough to give the illusion of continuous motion. 