among various trades. Electricians can be working at the same time as plumbers and carpenters, for example. You'll also encounter conditions and branches. For example, depending on the result of soils tests, you might have to blast, dig, or float. There might even be loops. For example, a building inspection might reveal code violations that result in scrap and rework. In the construction industry, such techniques as Gantt charts and Pert charts are commonly used for visualizing, specifying, constructing, and documenting the workflow of the project. Modeling the structural aspects of a system is discussed in Sections 2 and 3; interaction diagrams are discussed in Chapter 18. In modeling software-intensive systems, you have a similar problem. How do you best model a workflow or an operation, both of which are aspects of the system's dynamics? The answer is that you have two basic choices, similar to the use of Gantt charts and Pert charts. On the one hand, you can build up storyboards of scenarios, involving the interaction of certain interesting objects and the messages that may be dispatched among them. In the UML, you can model these storyboards in two ways: by emphasizing the time ordering of messages (using sequence diagrams) or by emphasizing the structural relationships among the objects that interact (using collaboration diagrams). Interaction diagrams such as these are akin to Gantt charts, which focus on the objects (resources) that carry out some activity over time. Actions are discussed in Chapter 15. On the other hand, you can model these dynamic aspects using activity diagrams, which focus first on the activities that take place among objects, as Figure 19-1 shows. In that regard, activity diagrams are akin to Pert charts. An activity diagram is essentially a flowchart that emphasizes the activity that takes place over time. You can think of an activity diagram as an interaction diagram turned inside out. An interaction diagram looks at the objects that pass messages; an activity diagram looks at the operations that are passed among objects. The semantic difference is subtle, but it results in a very different way of looking at the world. Figure 19-1 Activity Diagrams 