the systems and the patterns that shape these views. Finally, you'll want to focus on the seams between subsystems and the tracing from requirements to deployment. To model the architecture of a system, The five views of a software architecture are discussed in Chapter 2; diagrams are discussed in Chapter 7. · Identify the views that you'll use to represent your architecture. Most often, you'll want to include a use case view, a design view, a process view, a implementation view, and a deployment view, as shown in Figure 31-3. Figure 31-3 Modeling a System's Architecture  · Specify the context for this system, including the actors that surround it. · As necessary, decompose the system into its elementary subsystems. The following activities apply to the system, as well as to its subsystems. · Specify a use case view of the system, encompassing the use cases that describe the behavior of the system as seen by its end users, analysts, and testers. Apply use case diagrams to model static aspects, and interaction diagrams, statechart diagrams, and activity diagrams to model the dynamic aspects. · Specify a design view of the system, encompassing the classes, interfaces, and collaborations that form the vocabulary of the problem and its solution. Apply class diagrams and object diagrams to model static aspects, and iteration diagrams, statechart diagrams, and activity diagrams to model the dynamic aspects. · Specify a process view of the system, encompassing the threads and processes that form the system's concurrency and synchronization mechanisms. Apply the same diagrams as for the design view, but with a focus on active classes and objects that represent threads and processes. · Specify an implementation view of the system, encompassing the components that are used to assemble and release the physical system. Apply component diagrams to model static aspects, and interaction diagrams, statechart diagrams, and activity diagrams to model the dynamic aspects. · Specify a deployment view of the system, encompassing the nodes that form the system's hardware topology on which the system executes. Apply deployment diagrams 