 In this example, most of the comments are simple text (such as the note to Mary), but one of them (the note at the bottom of the diagram) provides a hyperlink to another document. Modeling New Building Blocks The UML's building blocks#classes, interfaces, collaborations, components, nodes, associations, and so on#are generic enough to address most of the things you'll want to model. However, if you want to extend your modeling vocabulary or give distinctive visual cues to certain kinds of abstractions that often appear in your domain, you need to use stereotypes. To model new building blocks, 路 Make sure there's not already a way to express what you want by using basic UML. If you have a common modeling problem, chances are there's already some standard stereotype that will do what you want. Building hierarchies ofstereotypes is discussed in Chapter 10. 路 If you're convinced there's no other way to express these semantics, identify the primitive thing in the UML that's most like what you want to model (for example, class, interface, component, node, association, and so on) and define a new stereotype for that thing. Remember that you can define hierarchies of stereotypes so that you can have general kinds of stereotypes along with their specializations (but as with any hierarchy, use this sparingly). 路 Specify the common properties and semantics that go beyond the basic element being stereotyped by defining a set of tagged values and constraints for the stereotype. 路 If you want these stereotype elements to have a distinctive visual cue, define a new icon for the stereotype. Instances are discussed in Chapter 13; roles are discussed in Chapter 11; activity diagrams are discussed in Chapter 19. For example, suppose you are using activity diagrams to model a business process involving the flow of coaches and teams through a sporting event. In this context, it would make sense to visually distinguish coaches and teams from one another and from the other things in this 