 An interaction diagram can begin or end at any point of a sequence. A complete trace of the flow of control would be incredibly complex, so it's reasonable to break up parts of a larger flow into separate diagrams. Modeling Flows of Control by Organization Systems and subsystems are discussed in Chapter 31; operations and classes are discussed in Chapters 4 and 9; use cases are discussed in Chapter 16; collaborations are discussed in Chapter 27. Consider the objects that live in the context of a system, subsystem, operation, or class. Consider also the objects and roles that participate in a use case or collaboration. To model a flow of control that winds through these objects and roles, you use an interaction diagram; to show the passing of messages in the context of that structure, you use a collaboration diagram, a kind of interaction diagram. To model a flow of control by organization, Dependency relationships are discussed in Chapters 5 and 10; become and copy are discussed in Chapter 13; path stereotypes are discussed in Chapter 15. · Set the context for the interaction, whether it is a system, subsystem, operation, or class, or one scenario of a use case or collaboration. · Set the stage for the interaction by identifying which objects play a role in the interaction. Lay them out on the collaboration diagram as vertices in a graph, placing the more important objects in the center of the diagram and their neighboring objects to the outside. · Set the initial properties of each of these objects. If the attribute values, tagged values, state, or role of any object changes in significant ways over the duration of the interaction, place a duplicate object on the diagram, update it with these new values, and connect them by a message stereotyped as become or copy (with a suitable sequence number). · Specify the links among these objects, along which messages may pass. 1. Lay out the association links first; these are the most important ones, because they represent structural connections. 2. Lay out other links next, and adorn them with suitable path stereotypes (such as global and local) to explicitly specify how these objects are related to one another. · Starting with the message that initiates this interaction, attach each subsequent message to the appropriate link, setting its sequence number, as appropriate. Show nesting by using Dewey decimal numbering. · If you need to specify time or space constraints, adorn each message with a timing mark and attach suitable time or space constraints. · If you need to specify this flow of control more formally, attach pre- and postconditions to each message. 