No matter their differences, there is some essential "window-ness" about each of them: Each is an opening in a wall, and each is designed to let in light, air, and sometimes, people. In the UML, the ways that things can connect to one another, either logically or physically, are modeled as relationships. In object-oriented modeling, there are three kinds of relationships that are most important: dependencies, generalizations, and associations. Dependencies are using relationships. For example, pipes depend on the water heater to heat the water they carry. Generalizations connect generalized classes to more-specialized ones in what is known as subclass/superclass or child/parent relationships. For example, a bay window is a kind of window with large, fixed panes; a patio window is a kind of window with panes that open side to side. Associations are structural relationships among instances. For example, rooms consist of walls and other things; walls themselves may have embedded doors and windows; pipes may pass through walls. Other kinds of relationships, such as realization and refinement, are discussed in Chapter 10. These three kinds of relationships cover most of the important ways in which things collaborate with one another. Not surprisingly, they also map well to the ways that are provided by most object-oriented programming languages to connect objects. The UML provides a graphical representation for each of these kinds of relationships, as Figure 5-1 shows. This notation permits you to visualize relationships apart from any specific programming language, and in a way that lets you emphasize the most important parts of a relationship: its name, the things it connects, and its properties. Figure 5-1 Relationships  Terms and Concepts A relationship is a connection among things. In object-oriented modeling, the three most important relationships are dependencies, generalizations, and associations. Graphically, a relationship is rendered as a path, with different kinds of lines used to distinguish the kinds of relationships. Dependency 