and acceptance criteria, fleshing out the design, and completing the implementation and test of the software. At the end of the construction phase, you decide if the software, sites, and users are all ready to go operational. Transition    During the transition phase, you deploy the software to the user community. Once the system has been put into the hands of its end users, issues often arise that require additional development in order to adjust the system, correct some undetected problems, or finish some features that have been postponed. This phase typically starts with a beta release of the system, which is then replaced with the production system. At the end of the transition phase, you decide whether the life cycle objectives of the project have been met and determine if you should start another development cycle. This is also a point at which you wrap up the lessons learned on the project in order to improve your development process, which will be applied to the next project. Iterations Each phase in the Rational Unified Process can be further broken down into iterations. An iteration is a complete development loop resulting in a release (internal or external) of an executable product constituting a subset of the final product under development, which then is grown incrementally from iteration to iteration to become the final system. Each iteration goes through the various process workflows, although with a different emphasis on each process workflow, depending on the phase. During inception, the focus is on requirements capture. During elaboration, the focus turns toward analysis and design. In construction, implementation is the central activity, and transition centers on deployment. Development Cycles Going through the four major phases is called a development cycle, and it results in one software generation. The first pass through the four phases is called the initial development cycle. Unless the life of the product stops, an existing product will evolve into its next generation by repeating the same sequence of inception, elaboration, construction, and transition phases. This is the evolution of the system, so the development cycles after the initial development cycles are its evolution cycles. Process Workflows The Rational Unified Process consists of nine process workflows. 1. Business modeling  Describes the structure and dynamics of the organization 2. Requirements  Describes the use case"based method for eliciting requirements 3. Analysis and design  Describes the multiple architectural views  4. Implementation  Takes into account software development, unit test, and integration 5. Test  Describes test cases, procedures, and defect-tracking metrics 6. Deployment  Covers the deliverable system configuration 7. Configuration management  Controls changes to and maintains the integrity of a project's artifacts 8. Project Management  Describes various strategies of working with an iterative process 9. Environment  Covers the necessary infrastructure required to develop a system 