distinguishes an activity diagram from a statechart diagram is that an activity diagram is basically a projection of the elements found in an activity graph, a special case of a state machine in which all or most states are activity states and in which all or most transitions are triggered by completion of activities in the source state.  Notes and constraints are discussed in Chapter 6. Like all other diagrams, statechart diagrams may contain notes and constraints. Common Uses The five views of an architecture are discussed in Chapter 2;instances are discussed in Chapter 13; classes are discussed in Chapters 4 and 9. You use statechart diagrams to model the dynamic aspects of a system. These dynamic aspects may involve the event-ordered behavior of any kind of object in any view of a system's architecture, including classes (which includes active classes), interfaces, components, and nodes. When you use a statechart diagram to model some dynamic aspect of a system, you do so in the context of virtually any modeling element. Typically, however, you'll use statechart diagrams in the context of the system as a whole, a subsystem, or a class. You can also attach statechart diagrams to use cases (to model a scenario). Active classes are discussed in Chapter 22; interfaces are discussed in Chapter 11; components are discussed in Chapter 25; nodes are discussed in Chapter 26; use cases are discussed in Chapter 16; systems are discussed in Chapter 31. When you model the dynamic aspects of a system, a class, or a use case, you'll typically use statechart diagrams in one way. · To model reactive objects A reactive " or event-driven " object is one whose behavior is best characterized by its response to events dispatched from outside its context. A reactive object is typically idle until it receives an event. When it receives an event, its response usually depends on previous events. After the object responds to an event, it becomes idle again, waiting for the next event. For these kinds of objects, you'll focus on the stable states of that object, the events that trigger a transition from state to state, and the actions that occur on each state change. Note In contrast, you'll use activity diagrams to model a workflow or to model an operation. Activity diagrams are better suited to modeling the flow of activities over time, such as you would represent in a flowchart. Common Modeling Technique Modeling Reactive Objects Interactions are discussed in Chapter 15; activity diagrams are discussed in Chapter 19. The most common purpose for which you'll use statechart diagrams is to model the behavior of reactive objects, especially instances of classes, use cases, and the system as a whole. Whereas 