· Model the mechanism as a collaboration, providing its structural, as well as its behavioral, aspects. · Identify the elements of the design pattern that must be bound to elements in a specific context and render them as parameters to the collaboration. For example, Figure 28-4 shows a use of the Command design pattern (as discussed in Gamma, et al., Design Patterns, Reading, Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley, 1995). As its documentation states, this pattern "encapsulates a request as an object, thereby letting you parameterize clients with different requests, queue or log requests, and support undoable operations." As the model indicates, this design pattern has four parameters that, when you apply the pattern, must be bound to elements in a given context. This model shows such a binding, in which Application, PasteCommand, OpenCommand, MenuItem, and Document are bound to the design pattern's parameters. Figure 28-4 Modeling a Design Pattern  Note that PasteCommand and OpenCommand are bound a little differently than the others. Both are subclasses of the Command class, provided by the design pattern itself. If you understand how the design pattern works, then by seeing this model, you'll know exactly how these five classes work together in context. Very likely, your system will use this pattern a number of times, perhaps with different bindings. The ability to reuse a design pattern like this as a first-class modeling element is what makes developing with patterns so powerful. Note Although not shown here, the classifiers that concretely manifest this design pattern (Application, PasteCommand, OpenCommand, MenuItem, and Document) are structured to be isomorphic with the generic design pattern itself, as shown in Figure 28-5. Therefore, where there is an association from Client to Receiver in the generic design pattern, for example, there also exists an association from Application to Document. Applying a pattern applies both the things and the relationships of the pattern. Figure 28-5 Modeling the Structural Aspect of a Design Pattern 