Development activities under the Rational Unified Process are use case  driven. The Rational Unified Process places strong emphasis on building systems based on a thorough understanding of how the delivered system will be used. The notions of use cases and scenarios are used to align the process flow from requirements capture through testing and to provide traceable threads through development to the delivered system. The Rational Unified Process supports object-oriented techniques. Each model is object-oriented. Rational Unified Process models are based on the concepts of objects and classes and the relationships among them, and they use the UML as its common notation. The Rational Unified Process is a configurable process. Although no single process is suitable for all software development organizations, the Rational Unified Process is tailorable and can be scaled to fit the needs of projects ranging from small software development teams to large development organizations. The Rational Unified Process is founded on a simple and clear process architecture that provides commonality across a family of processes, and yet can be varied to accommodate various situations. Contained in the Rational Unified Process is guidance about how to configure the process to suit the needs of an organization. The Rational Unified Process encourages objective ongoing quality control and risk management. Quality assessment is built into the process, in all activities and involving all participants, using objective measurements and criteria. It is not treated as an afterthought or as a separate activity. Risk management is built into the process, so that risks to the success of the project are identified and attacked early in the development process, when there is time to react. Phases and Iterations A phase is the span of time between two major milestones of the process in which a well-defined set of objectives are met, artifacts are completed, and decisions are made whether to move into the next phase. As Figure C-1 illustrates, the Rational Unified Process consists of the following four phases: 1. Inception  Establish the business case for the project 2. Elaboration  Establish a project plan and a sound architecture 3. Construction  Grow the system 4. Transition  Supply the system to its end users Inception and elaboration encompass the engineering activities of the development life cycle; construction and transition constitute its production. Within each phase are a number of iterations. An iteration represents a complete development cycle, from requirements capture in analysis to implementation and testing, that results in the release of an executable project. Figure C-1 The Software Development Life Cycle 