By GiantDino   Front Matter Table of Contents Index About the Author Unified Modeling Language User Guide, The Grady Booch  James Rumbaugh  Ivar Jacobson  Publisher: Addison Wesley  First Edition October 20, 1998 ISBN: 0-201-57168-4, 512 pages   In The Unified Modeling Language User Guide, the original developers of the UML--Grady Booch, James Rumbaugh, and Ivar Jacobson--provide a tutorial to the core aspects of the language in a two-color format designed to facilitate learning. Starting with a conceptual model of the UML, the book progressively applies the UML to a series of increasingly complex modeling problems across a variety of application domains. This example-driven approach helps readers quickly understand and apply the UML. For more advanced developers, the book includes a learning track focused on applying the UML to advanced modeling problems. With The Unified Modeling Language User Guide, readers will: Understand what the UML is, what it is not, and why it is relevant to the development of software-intensive systems  Master the vocabulary, rules, and idioms of the UML in order to "speak" the language effectively Learn how to apply the UML to a number of common modeling problems See illustrations of the UML s use interspersed with use cases for specific UML features, and Gain insight into the UML from the original creators of the UML. Unified Modeling Language User Guide, The Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book, and Addision Wesley Longman Inc. was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in initial caps are all in caps. The author and publisher have taken care in the preparation of this book, but make no expressed or implied warranty of any kind and assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. No liability is assumed for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of the information or programs contained herein. 