When you draw a class in the UML, · Show only those properties of the class that are important to understanding the abstraction in its context. · Organize long lists of attributes and operations by grouping them according to their category. · Show related classes in the same class diagrams. Chapter 5. Relationships In this chapter · Dependency, generalization, and association relationships · Modeling simple dependencies · Modeling single inheritance · Modeling structural relationships · Creating webs of relationships When you build abstractions, you'll discover that very few of your classes stand alone. Instead, most of them collaborate with others in a number of ways. Therefore, when you model a system, not only must you identify the things that form the vocabulary of your system, you must also model how these things stand in relation to one another. Advanced features of relationships are discussed in Chapter 10. In object-oriented modeling, there are three kinds of relationships that are especially important: dependencies, which represent using relationships among classes (including refinement, trace, and bind relationships); generalizations, which link generalized classes to their specializations; and associations, which represent structural relationships among objects. Each of these relationships provides a different way of combining your abstractions. Building webs of relationships is not unlike creating a balanced distribution of responsibilities among your classes. Over-engineer, and you'll end up with a tangled mess of relationships that make your model incomprehensible; under-engineer, and you'll have missed a lot of the richness of your system embodied in the way things collaborate. Getting Started If you are building a house, things like walls, doors, windows, cabinets, and lights will form part of your vocabulary. None of these things stands alone, however. Walls connect to other walls. Doors and windows are placed in walls to form openings for people and for light. Cabinets and lights are physically attached to walls and ceilings. You group walls, doors, windows, cabinets, and lights together to form higher-level things, such as rooms. Not only will you find structural relationships among these things, you'll find other kinds of relationships, as well. For example, your house certainly has windows, but there are probably many kinds of windows. You might have large bay windows that don't open, as well as small kitchen windows that do. Some of your windows might open up and down; others, like patio windows, will slide left and right. Some windows have a single pane of glass; others have double. 