 Class diagrams are discussed in Chapter 8; interaction diagrams are discussed in Chapter 18. Note This notation lets you visualize a collaboration from the outside as one chunk. What's often more interesting is what's inside this notation. Zoom into a collaboration, and you'll be led to other diagrams# most notably, class diagrams (for the collaboration's structural part) and interaction diagrams (for the collaboration's behavioral part). Terms and Concepts The notation for collaborations is intentionally similar to that for use cases, as discussed in Chapter 16. A collaboration is a society of classes, interfaces, and other elements that work together to provide some cooperative behavior that's bigger than the sum of all its parts. A collaboration is also the specification of how an element, such as a classifier (including a class, interface, component, node, or use case) or an operation, is realized by a set of classifiers and associations playing specific roles used in a specific way. Graphically, a collaboration is rendered as an ellipse with dashed lines. Names A collaboration name must be unique within its enclosing package, as discussed in Chapter 12. Every collaboration must have a name that distinguishes it from other collaborations. A name is a textual string. That name alone is known as a simple name; a path name is the collaboration name prefixed by the name of the package in which that collaboration lives. Typically, a collaboration is drawn showing only its name, as in the previous figure. Note A collaboration name may be text consisting of any number of letters, numbers, and certain punctuation marks (except for marks such as the colon, which is used to separate a collaboration name and the name of its enclosing package) and may continue over several lines. In practice, collaboration names are short nouns or noun phrases drawn from the vocabulary of the system you are modeling. Typically, you capitalize the first letter of a collaboration name, as in Transaction or Chain of responsibility.  Structure 