· Chose the target you want to reverse engineer. Typically, you'll set your context inside an operation or relative to an instance of one particular class. · Using a tool or simply walking through a scenario, stop execution at a certain moment in time. · Identify the set of interesting objects that collaborate in that context and render them in an object diagram. · As necessary to understand their semantics, expose these object's states. · As necessary to understand their semantics, identify the links that exist among these objects. · If your diagram ends up overly complicated, prune it by eliminating objects that are not germane to the questions about the scenario you need answered. If your diagram is too simplistic, expand the neighbors of certain interesting objects and expose each object's state more deeply. Hints and Tips When you create object diagrams in the UML, remember that every object diagram is just a graphical representation of the static design view or static process view of a system. This means that no single object diagram need capture everything about a system's design or process view. In fact, for all but trivial systems, you'll encounter hundreds if not thousands of objects, most of them anonymous. So it's impossible to completely specify all the objects of a system or all the ways in which these objects may be associated. Consequently, object diagrams reflect some of the concrete or prototypical objects that live in the running system. A well-structured object diagram · Is focused on communicating one aspect of a system's static design view or static process view. · Represents one frame in the dynamic storyboard represented by an interaction diagram. · Contains only those elements that are essential to understanding that aspect. · Provides detail consistent with its level of abstraction; you should expose only those attribute values and other adornments that are essential to understanding. · Is not so minimalist as to misinform the reader about semantics that are important. When you draw an object diagram, · Give it a name that communicates its purpose. · Lay out its elements to minimize lines that cross. · Organize its elements spatially so that things that are semantically close are laid out to be physically close. · Use notes and color as visual cues to draw attention to important features of your diagram. · Include the values, state, and role of each object as necessary to communicate your intent. 