A real time system is one in which certain behavior must be carried out at a precise absolute or relative time and within a predictable, often constrained, duration. At one extreme, such systems may be hard real time and require complete and repeatable behavior within nanoseconds or milliseconds. At the other extreme, models may be near real time and also require predictable behavior, but on the order of seconds or longer. Components are discussed in Chapter 25 ; nodes are discussed in Chapter 26. A distributed system is one in which components may be physically distributed across nodes. These nodes may represent different processors physically located in the same box, or they may even represent computers that are located half a world away from one another. To represent the modeling needs of real time and distributed systems, the UML provides a graphic representation for timing marks, time expressions, timing constraints, and location, as Figure 23-1 shows. Figure 23-1 Timing Constraints and Location  Terms and Concepts A timing mark is a denotation for the time at which an event occurs. Graphically, a timing mark is formed as an expression from the name given to the message (which is typically different from the name of the action dispatched by the message). A time expression is an expression that evaluates to an absolute or relative value of time. A timing constraint is a semantic statement about the relative or absolute value of time. Graphically, a timing constraint is rendered as for any constraint#that is, a string enclosed by brackets and generally connected to an element by a dependency relationship. Location is the placement of a component on a node. Graphically, location is rendered as a tagged value#that is, a string enclosed by brackets and placed below an element's name, or as the nesting of components inside nodes. Time Events, including time events, are discussed in Chapter 20 ; messages and interactions are discussed in Chapter 15 ; constraints are discussed in Chapter 6. Real time systems are, by their very name, time-critical systems. Events may happen at regular or irregular times; the response to an event must happen at predictable absolute times or at predictable times relative to the event itself. 