You'll typically use the first form when it's important for you to give a visual cue in your diagrams about the spatial separation and grouping of components. Similarly, you'll use the second form when modeling the location of an element is important, but secondary, to the diagram at hand, such as when you want to visualize the passing of messages among instances. Note The second form for modeling the location of an element is especially useful when you want to show the redistribution of a component over time. For example, you can use a become message to model an object currently residing at one location and moving to another location. Similarly, you can use a copy message to show the semantic relationship between distant objects. Common Modeling Techniques Modeling Timing Constraints Constraints, one of the UML's extensibility mechanisms, are discussed in Chapter 6. Modeling the absolute time of an event, modeling the relative time between events, and modeling the time it takes to carry out an action are the three primary time-critical properties of real time systems for which you'll use timing constraints. To model timing constraints, · For each event in an interaction, consider whether it must start at some absolute time. Model that real time property as a timing constraint on the message. · For each interesting sequence of messages in an interaction, consider whether there is an associated maximum relative time for that sequence. Model that real time property as a timing constraint on the sequence. · For each time critical operation in each class, consider its time complexity. Model those semantics as timing constraints on the operation. For example, as shown in Figure 23-4, the left-most constraint specifies the repeating start time the call event refresh. Similarly, the center timing constraint specifies the maximum duration for calls to getImage. Finally, the right-most constraint specifies the time complexity of the call event getImage. Figure 23-4 Modeling Timing Constraint  Note 