· Exposes only those attributes and operations that are relevant to the domain you are modeling. · Directly deploys a set of components that reside on the node. · Is connected to other nodes in a manner that reflects the topology of the real world system. When you draw a node in the UML, · For your project or organization as a whole, define a set of stereotypes with appropriate icons to provide meaningful visual cues to your readers. · Show only the attributes and operations (if any) that are necessary to understand the meaning of that node in the given context. Chapter 27. Collaborations In this chapter · Collaborations, realizations, and interactions · Modeling the realization of a use case · Modeling the realization of an operation · Modeling a mechanism · Reifying interactions In the context of a system's architecture, a collaboration allows you to name a conceptual chunk that encompasses both static and dynamic aspects. A collaboration names a society of classes, interfaces, and other elements that work together to provide some cooperative behavior that's bigger than the sum of all its parts. You use collaborations to specify the realization of use cases and operations, and to model the architecturally significant mechanisms of your system. Getting Started Think about the most beautiful building you've even seen#perhaps the Taj Mahal or Notre Dame. Both structures exhibit a quality that's hard to name. In many ways, both structures are architecturally simple, yet they are also profoundly deep. In each, you can immediately recognize a consistent symmetry. Look harder, and you'll see details that are themselves beautiful and that work together to produce a beauty and functionality that's greater than the individual parts. Now think about the ugliest building you've even seen#perhaps your local fast food outlet. You'll find a visual cacophony of architectural styles#a touch of modernism combined with a Georgian roof line, all decorated in a jarring fashion, with bold colors that assault the eye. Usually, these buildings are pure manipulation, with narrow function and hardly any form. What's the difference between these two kinds of civil architecture? First, in buildings of quality, you'll find a harmony of design that's lacking in the others. Quality architecture uses a small set of architectural styles applied in a consistent fashion. For example, the Taj Mahal uses complex, symmetrical, and balanced geometric elements throughout. Second, in buildings of quality, you'll find common patterns that transcend the building's individual elements. For example, in Notre 