· Use the lollipop notation whenever you simply need to specify the presence of a seam in the system. Most of the time, you'll need this for components, not classes. · Use the expanded form when you need to visualize the details of the service itself. Most of the time, you'll need this for specifying the seams in a system attached to a package or a subsystem. Chapter 12. Packages In this chapter · Packages, visibility, importing, and exporting · Modeling groups of elements · Modeling architectural views · Scaling up to large systems Visualizing, specifying, constructing, and documenting large systems involves manipulating potentially large numbers of classes, interfaces, components, nodes, diagrams, and other elements. As you scale up to systems such as these, you will find it necessary to organize these things into larger chunks. In the UML, the package is a general purpose mechanism for organizing modeling elements into groups. You use packages to arrange your modeling elements into larger chunks that you can manipulate as a group. You can control the visibility of these elements so that some things are visible outside the package while others are hidden. You can also use packages to present different views of your system's architecture. Well-designed packages group elements that are semantically close and that tend to change together. Well-structured packages are therefore loosely coupled and very cohesive, with tightly controlled access to the package's contents. Getting Started The differences between building a dog house and building a high rise are discussed in Chapter 1. Dog houses aren't complex: you have four walls, one of them with a dog-size hole, and a roof. When you build a dog house, you really need only a small pile of lumber. There's not a lot more structure than that. Houses are more complex. Walls, ceilings, and floors come together in larger abstractions that we call rooms. Even these rooms are organized into larger chunks: the living area, the area for entertaining, and so on. These larger groups may not manifest themselves as anything to do with the physical house itself but may just be names we give to logically related rooms in the house, which we apply when we talk about how we'll use the house. High rises are very complex. Not only are there elementary structures, such as walls, ceilings, and floors, but there are larger chunks, such as public areas, the retail wing, and office spaces. These chunks are probably grouped into even larger chunks, such as rental space and building service area. These larger chunks may have nothing to do with the final high rise itself but are simply artifacts we use to organize our plans for the high rise. 