You can specify the vitality of an object or a link by marking it with a newdestroyed, or transient constraint, as discussed in Chapter 15; representing the changing values, state, and roles of an object is discussed in Chapter 13. First, there is the object lifeline. An object lifeline is the vertical dashed line that represents the existence of an object over a period of time. Most objects that appear in an interaction diagram will be in existence for the duration of the interaction, so these objects are all aligned at the top of the diagram, with their lifelines drawn from the top of the diagram to the bottom. Objects may be created during the interaction. Their lifelines start with the receipt of the message stereotyped as create. Objects may be destroyed during the interaction. Their lifelines end with the receipt of the message stereotyped as destroy (and are given the visual cue of a large X, marking the end of their lives). Note If an object changes the values of its attributes, its state, or its roles, you can place a copy of the object icon on its lifeline at the point the change occurs, showing those modifications.  Second, there is the focus of control. The focus of control is a tall, thin rectangle that shows the period of time during which an object is performing an action, either directly or through a subordinate procedure. The top of the rectangle is aligned with the start of the action; the bottom is aligned with its completion (and can be marked by a return message). You can show the nesting of a focus of control (caused by recursion, a call to a self-operation, or by a callback from another object) by stacking another focus of control slightly to the right of its parent (and can do so to an arbitrary depth). If you want to be especially precise about where the focus of control lies, you can also shade the region of the rectangle during which the object's method is actually computing (and control has not passed to another object). Note Unlike a sequence diagram, you don't show the lifeline of an object explicitly in a collaboration diagram, although you can show both create and destroy messages. In addition, you don't show the focus of control explicitly in a collaboration diagram, although each message's sequence number can indicate nesting.  Collaboration Diagrams A collaboration diagram emphasizes the organization of the objects that participate in an interaction. As Figure 18-3 shows, you form a collaboration diagram by first placing the objects that participate in the interaction as the vertices in a graph. Next, you render the links that connect these objects as the arcs of this graph. Finally, you adorn these links with the messages that objects send and receive. This gives the reader a clear visual cue to the flow of control in the context of the structural organization of objects that collaborate. Figure 18-3 Collaboration Diagram 