"Hello, World!" is implemented as an applet and so never stands alone but, rather, is typically a part of some Web page. The applet starts when its enclosing page is opened, triggered by some browser mechanism that runs the applet's Thread object. However, it's not the HelloWorld class that's directly a part of the Web page. Rather, it's a binary form of the class, created by a Java compiler that transforms the source code representing that class into a component that can be executed. This suggests a very different perspective of the system. Whereas all the earlier diagrams represented a logical view of the applet, what's going on here is a view of the applet's physical components. Components are discussed in Chapter 25. You can model this physical view using a component diagram, as in Figure 3-6. Figure 3-6 HelloWorld Components  Each of the icons in this figure represents a UML element in the implementation view of the system. The component called hello.java represents the source code for the logical class HelloWorld, so it is a file that may be manipulated by development environments and configuration management tools. This source code can be transformed into the binary applet hello.class by a Java compiler, making it suitable for execution by a computer's Java virtual machine. The UML's extensibility mechanisms are discussed in Chapter 6. The canonical icon for a component is a rectangle with two tabs. The binary applet HelloWorld.class is a variation of this basic symbol, with its lines made thicker, indicating that it is an executable component (just like an active class). The icon for the hello.java component has been replaced with a user-defined icon, representing a text file. The icon for the Web page hello.html has been similarly tailored by extending the UML's notation. As the figure indicates, this Web page has another component, hello.jpg, which is represented by a user-defined component icon, in this case providing a thumbnail sketch of the graphics image. Because these latter three components use user-defined graphical symbols, their names are placed outside the icon. Note 