A well-structured diagram · Is focused on communicating one aspect of a system's view. · Contains only those elements that are essential to understanding that aspect. · Provides detail consistent with its level of abstraction (expose only those adornments that are essential to understanding). · Is not so minimalist that it misinforms the reader about semantics that are important. When you draw a diagram, · Give it a name that communicates its purpose. · Lay out its elements to minimize lines that cross. · Organize its elements spatially so that things that are semantically close are laid out physically close. · Use notes and color as visual cues to draw attention to important features of your diagram. Chapter 8. Class Diagrams In this chapter · Modeling simple collaborations · Modeling a logical database schema · Forward and reverse engineering Class diagrams are the most common diagram found in modeling object- oriented systems. A class diagram shows a set of classes, interfaces, and collaborations and their relationships. You use class diagrams to model the static design view of a system. For the most part, this involves modeling the vocabulary of the system, modeling collaborations, or modeling schemas. Class diagrams are also the foundation for a couple of related diagrams: component diagrams and deployment diagrams. Class diagrams are important not only for visualizing, specifying, and documenting structural models, but also for constructing executable systems through forward and reverse engineering. Getting Started When you build a house, you start with a vocabulary that includes basic building blocks, such as walls, floors, windows, doors, ceilings, and joists. These things are largely structural (walls have height, width, and thickness), but they're also somewhat behavioral (different kinds of walls can support different loads, doors open and close, there are constraints on the span of a unsupported floor). In fact, you can't consider these structural and behavioral features independently. Rather, when you build your house, you must consider how they interact. The process of architecting your house thus involves assembling these things in a unique and pleasing manner intended to satisfy all your functional and nonfunctional requirements. The blueprints you create to visualize your house and to specify its details to your contractors for construction are, in effect, graphical presentations of these things and their relationships. 