information would be lost forever or, at best, only partially recreatable from the implementation, once that developer moved on. Writing models in the UML addresses the third issue: An explicit model facilitates communication. Some things are best modeled textually; others are best modeled graphically. Indeed, in all interesting systems, there are structures that transcend what can be represented in a programming language. The UML is such a graphical language. This addresses the second problem described earlier. The complete semantics of the UML are discussed in The Unified Modeling Language Reference Manual. The UML is more than just a bunch of graphical symbols. Rather, behind each symbol in the UML notation is a well-defined semantics. In this manner, one developer can write a model in the UML, and another developer, or even another tool, can interpret that model unambiguously. This addresses the first issue described earlier. The UML Is a Language for Specifying In this context, specifying means building models that are precise, unambiguous, and complete. In particular, the UML addresses the specification of all the important analysis, design, and implementation decisions that must be made in developing and deploying a software-intensive system. The UML Is a Language for Constructing The UML is not a visual programming language, but its models can be directly connected to a variety of programming languages. This means that it is possible to map from a model in the UML to a programming language such as Java, C++, or Visual Basic, or even to tables in a relational database or the persistent store of an object-oriented database. Things that are best expressed graphically are done so graphically in the UML, whereas things that are best expressed textually are done so in the programming language. Modeling the structure of a system is discussed in Sections 2 and 3. This mapping permits forward engineering: The generation of code from a UML model into a programming language. The reverse is also possible: You can reconstruct a model from an implementation back into the UML. Reverse engineering is not magic. Unless you encode that information in the implementation, information is lost when moving forward from models to code. Reverse engineering thus requires tool support with human intervention. Combining these two paths of forward code generation and reverse engineering yields round-trip engineering, meaning the ability to work in either a graphical or a textual view, while tools keep the two views consistent. Modeling the behavior of a system is discussed in Sections 4 and 5. In addition to this direct mapping, the UML is sufficiently expressive and unambiguous to permit the direct execution of models, the simulation of systems, and the instrumentation of running systems. The UML Is a Language for Documenting A healthy software organization produces all sorts of artifacts in addition to raw executable code. These artifacts include (but are not limited to) · Requirements 