Main flow of events:   The use case starts when the system prompts the Customer for a PIN number. The Customer can now enter a PIN number via the keypad. The Customer commits the entry by pressing the Enter button. The system then checks this PIN number to see if it is valid. If the PIN number is valid, the system acknowledges the entry, thus ending the use case. Exceptional flow of events:   The Customer can cancel a transaction at any time by pressing the Cancel button, thus restarting the use case. No changes are made to the Customer's account. Exceptional flow of events:   The Customer can clear a PIN number anytime before committing it and reenter a new PIN number. Exceptional flow of events:   If the Customer enters an invalid PIN number, the use case restarts. If this happens three times in a row, the system cancels the entire transaction, preventing the Customer from interacting with the ATM for 60 seconds. Note You can specify a use case's flow of events in a number of ways, including informal structured text (as in the example above), formal structured text (with pre- and postconditions), and pseudocode.  Use Cases and Scenarios Interaction diagrams, including sequence diagrams and collaboration diagrams, are discussed in Chapter 18. Typically, you'll first describe the flow of events for a use case in text. As you refine your understanding of your system's requirements, however, you'll want to also use interaction diagrams to specify these flows graphically. Typically, you'll use one sequence diagram to specify a use case's main flow, and variations of that diagram to specify a use case's exceptional flows. It is desirable to separate main versus alternative flows because a use case describes a set of sequences, not just a single sequence, and it would be impossible to express all the details of an interesting use case in just one sequence. For example, in a human resources system, you might find the use case Hire employee. This general business function might have many possible variations. You might hire a person from another company (the most common scenario); you might transfer a person from one division to another (common in international companies); or you might hire a foreign national (which involves its own special rules). Each of these variants can be expressed in a different sequence. Instances are discussed in Chapter 13. This one use case (Hire employee) actually describes a set of sequences in which each sequence in the set represents one possible flow through all these variations. Each sequence is 