Figure 13-1 Instances  Terms and Concepts The UML's class/object dichotomy is discussed in Chapter 2. An instance is a concrete manifestation of an abstraction to which a set of operations can be applied and which has a state that stores the effects of the operations. Instance and object are largely synonymous. Graphically, an instance is rendered by underlining its name. Associations are discussed in Chapters 5 and 10; links are discussed in Chapters 14 and 15. Note From common usage, the concrete manifestation of a class is called an object. Objects are instances of classes, so it's excruciatingly proper to say that all objects are instances, although some instances are not objects (for example, an instance of an association is really not an object, it's just an instance, also known as a link). Only power modelers will really care about this subtle distinction.  Abstractions and Instances Classifiers are discussed in Chapter 9. Instances don't stand alone; they are almost always tied to an abstraction. Most instances you'll model with the UML will be instances of classes (and these things are called objects), although you can have instances of other things, such as components, nodes, use cases, and associations. In the UML, an instance is easily distinguishable from an abstraction. To indicate an instance, you underline its name. In a general sense, an object is something that takes up space in the real or conceptual world, and you can do things to it. For example, an instance of a node is typically a computer that physically sits in a room; an instance of a component takes up some space on the file system; an instance of a customer record consumes some amount of physical memory. Similarly, an instance of a flight envelope for an aircraft is something you can manipulate mathematically. Abstractclasses are discussed in Chapter 9; interfaces are discussed in Chapter 11. You can use the UML to model these physical instances, but you can also model things that are not so concrete. For example, an abstract class, by definition, may not have any direct instances. 