· The architectural style that guides this organization: the static and dynamic elements and their interfaces, their collaborations, and their composition Software architecture is not only concerned with structure and behavior, but also with usage, functionality, performance, resilience, reuse, comprehensibility, economic and technology constraints and trade-offs, and aesthetic concerns. Modeling the architecture of a system is discussed in Chapter 31. As Figure 2-20 illustrates, the architecture of a software-intensive system can best be described by five interlocking views. Each view is a projection into the organization and structure of the system, focused on a particular aspect of that system. Figure 2-20 Modeling a System's Architecture  The use case view of a system encompasses the use cases that describe the behavior of the system as seen by its end users, analysts, and testers. This view doesn't really specify the organization of a software system. Rather, it exists to specify the forces that shape the system's architecture. With the UML, the static aspects of this view are captured in use case diagrams; the dynamic aspects of this view are captured in interaction diagrams, statechart diagrams, and activity diagrams. The design view of a system encompasses the classes, interfaces, and collaborations that form the vocabulary of the problem and its solution. This view primarily supports the functional requirements of the system, meaning the services that the system should provide to its end users. With the UML, the static aspects of this view are captured in class diagrams and object diagrams; the dynamic aspects of this view are captured in interaction diagrams, statechart diagrams, and activity diagrams. The process view of a system encompasses the threads and processes that form the system's concurrency and synchronization mechanisms. This view primarily addresses the performance, scalability, and throughput of the system. With the UML, the static and dynamic aspects of this view are captured in the same kinds of diagrams as for the design view, but with a focus on the active classes that represent these threads and processes. The implementation view of a system encompasses the components and files that are used to assemble and release the physical system. This view primarily addresses the configuration management of the system's releases, made up of somewhat independent components and files that can be assembled in various ways to produce a running system. With the UML, the static aspects of this view are captured in component diagrams; the dynamic aspects of this view are captured in interaction diagrams, statechart diagrams, and activity diagrams. 