Captured within each process workflow is a set of correlated artifacts and activities. An artifact is some document, report, or executable that is produced, manipulated, or consumed. An activity describes the tasks#thinking steps, performing steps, and reviewing steps#performed by workers to create or modify artifacts, together with the techniques and guidelines to perform the tasks, possibly including the use of tools to help automate some of the tasks. Important connections among the artifacts are associated with certain of these process workflows. For example, the use case model generated during requirements capture is realized by the design model from the analysis and design process, implemented by the implementation model from the implementation process, and verified by the test model from the test process. Artifacts Each Rational Unified Process activity has associated artifacts, either required as an input or generated as an output. Some artifacts are used to direct input to subsequent activities, kept as reference resources on the project, or generated in a format as contractual deliverables. Models Modeling is discussed in Chapter 1. Models are the most important kind of artifact in the Rational Unified Process. A model is a simplification of reality, created to better understand the system being created. In the Rational Unified Process, there are nine models that collectively cover all the important decisions that go into visualizing, specifying, constructing, and documenting a software-intensive system. 1. Business model  Establishes an abstraction of the organization 2. Domain model  Establishes the context of the system 3. Use case model  Establishes the system's functional requirements 4. Analysis model (optional)  Establishes an idea design 5. Design model  Establishes the vocabulary of the problem and its solution 6. Process model (optional)  Establishes the system's concurrency and synchronization mechanisms 7. Deployment model  Establishes the hardware topology on which the system is executed 8. Implementation model  Establishes the parts used to assemble and release the physical system 9. Test model  Establishes the paths by which the system is validated and verified Architecture is discussed in Chapter 2. A view is a projection into a model. In the Rational Unified Process, the architecture of a system is captured in five interlocking views: the design view, process view, deployment view, implementation view, and use case view. Other Artifacts The Rational Unified Process's artifacts are categorized as either management artifacts or technical artifacts. The Rational Unified Process's technical artifacts may be divided into four main sets. 1. Requirements set  Describes what the system must do 2. Design set  Describes how the system is to be constructed 3. Implementation set  Describes the assembly of developed software components 4. Deployment set  Provides all the data for the deliverable configuration 